i open by reading a hilarious comment  from the audience manon gowenko a  longtime viewer and commenter says quote  he's really excited for this topic his  stance used to be  until he realized that what he truly  wants is for him to be able to have guns  and for everyone else not to be able to  have it  um  be uh be sensitive to those rights that  you would uh preach  only as a private privilege  for a few and not for the many if you  don't think a right would be used well  and appropriately by your worst enemies  then perhaps should not be a right  and this comes up a great deal obviously  in talking about uh freedom of speech if  you don't really believe freedom of  speech can and should be had in practice  by your by your worst enemies because we  are living through a period of time  when the history of the constitution of  the united states of america is being  rewritten it's being understood in a  completely different way  um some of these books i recommend more  than others some of them are better  written than others if you just click on  the description of this video many of my  viewers never do you will find links to  two books that we're going to discuss at  some length uh i'm going to make  reference to woody halton again just a  book i frequently advertise and mention  in terms of what the new school of  thought is and looking back and  reinterpreting this united states of  america and this guy robert parkinson  let's make sure i'm getting his name  right uh who has written 13 clocks  so  that is one book i cannot hold up for  you on camera because i've been reading  it as a kindle ebook on my cell phone  but it's  the cover of that book appears in the  thumbnail of this video for a reason and  those are the two books mentioned in the  description for a reason so partly this  is going to be a discussion about new  perspectives on new understandings of  the history of the american constitution  it is partly going to be a critique  of those two authors of uh  parkinson and woody holton because i  have a different uh perspective  different emphasis different direction  to take in this video and partly as you  have all guessed again there's a lot of  information just in the title and  thumbnail for this video this is  probably going to be a response to the  renewed debate  about the right to bear arms about  legislation to regulate or delimit  americans  right to own  and use guns which is a great  illustration of the more profound and  fundamental questions i want to raise  here about law itself about democracy  itself and indeed um  about the concept of progress  now  i open this  video with some hesitation by talking  about the most  impalpable and abstract aspect of the  debate which is the idea of  progress  our whole concept of what a revolution  is our concept of what a constitution is  at this moment is  poisoned by our presuppositions about  progress we are trained from an early  age to think about political progress  as if it were in some sense equivalent  to scientific progress so let's just  reflect on this for a moment  in the progress of science we are told  there are things that in the past were  unknown  then they become known and everything in  our society changes to reflect what's  now established as known which has real  demonstrable palpable consequences so  there was a time when nobody understood  the nature of tooth decay and going to  the dentist was unbelievably painful and  terrifying and expensive right and our  whole society for untold centuries lived  in fear of tooth decay it's not too much  to say that they lived in fear of the  dentist  again whether that was in terms of what  it would cost you or just the physical  pain you would go through when having  teeth pulled out of your head then there  were these scientific discoveries  including the understanding of fluoride  and its efficacy and  preventing tooth decay and then we  started to have ever more coercive laws  and educational policies of teaching  every child that they should use  fluoride of adding fluoride to the  drinking water all these other things  that remain controversial it is every  time i go to buy toothpaste i'm amazed  at how many brands still to this day  advertise that they're fluoride free for  that you know hippie uh market for the  people who don't believe in fluoride  people who believe hysterical conspiracy  theories about fluoride right so  this is an idea of  irreversible universal objectively real  progress now i'm already hinting at the  extent to which it is not so universal  as we might like to believe because when  i go to buy toothpaste whether or not  one should buy toothpaste that has  fluoride and it remains controversial  believe it or not whether or not there  should be fluoride in the drinking water  uh remains controversial too and i've  heard both both sides of that argument  by the way that um to what extent that  science and to what extent that's  pseudoscience remains controversial but  for the purpose of this video just  pointing out  we all of us anyone who speaks any  modern language not just modern western  language if you grew up speaking chinese  if you grew up speaking japanese to an  astonishing extent throughout the whole  world  globally you were raised with a notion  of unidirectional unidirectional  progress progress that moves in one  direction as science goes from unknown  to known as things go from suspicions  and apprehensions and superstitions  they're dragged into the realm of facts  then we adapt our culture changes our  laws change our policies change in  response to that that progress and  something subtle but important here  in this model  government is not creating progress  government is not creating change  government is lagging behind scientific  change right some scientists somewhere  perhaps in a university right discovers  something and then government and  democracy follows along afterward  imperfectly legislating behind that's  also a very important and in my opinion  false assumption as opposed to looking  at progress as something that is  innovated nowhere other than in the  halls of power in government and really  taking seriously the role of government  as innovator not as responding to and  lagging behind uh  okay  the history of prostitution  in  france at any given moment  in that story it was very easy to speak  of progress it was very easy to pretend  this was the superstitious notion in the  dark ages these were the superstitious  unscientific attitudes of the medieval  world and then something became known  that formerly was unknown and resulted  in new laws  a new constitution if you like changes  when i say constitution i don't just  mean a written constitution but this  slightly more nebulous sense of of how  our society operates at all time  on the basis of things written and  unwritten things known and unknown that  france made a transition from  prostitution being illegal to  prostitution being  legal  if you don't know this spend some time  with the wikipedia article  guess what france made the transition  back again  okay they tried having a society with  legal prostitution  they didn't like  the consequences  and then they tried  something else and i'm slightly  simplifying the history if you go  through it decade by decade and century  by century you'll see  at different times it shifted  back and forth but to simplify you can  indeed say of france that the pendulum  swung out in one direction and then it  swung back again right next door germany  has a totally different history with  prostitution on the other side of the  world  the history of prostitution in japan the  history of prostitution in  taiwan the history of prostitution in  south korea  okay  there is no progress  there were only revisions there are only  constitutional amendments if you like  the reason why i prefer the term  revision to amendment is that built into  the concept of amendment is that you are  mending something there is a rip in the  fabric or there is an there's an  imperfection in the constitution that  you mend right i'm just talking about  revisions  people have an idea  they write it down on a piece of paper  and in this respect a written  constitution is no different from a bar  room napkin right they try it for a  while they see how it works  it's not working and they have to try  something different  [Laughter]  a little bit of technical assistance  from  melissa here sitting off camera um  so  part of my interest in the current  controversies in  reevaluating and analyzing the history  of the american revolution of freshman  new engle the writing of the  constitution of fresh from a new angle  part of it yes is in challenging  myths and misconceptions about the  american constitution  i am concerned though that what i see  happening right now in the year 2022 is  one set of myths being discarded and  people's eagerness to embrace and  entrench a new set of myths frankly a  new set of lies  um  just within the last several months  you will have heard this from a  cacophony of voices  innumerable people across the united  states america stood up to proclaim that  the right to have an abortion is  enshrined in the constitution  innumerable voices complain that they  are taking away our constitutional  rights  um  to have an abortion  and many innumerable people talking  about the right to privacy in the  constitution there is no right to have  an abortion in the constitution there is  no right to privacy in the constitution  now a few months before that  i remember likewise in discussions about  twitter  um  at certain points it's been said about  youtube and facebook  they  are taking away our constitutional right  to freedom of speech there's absolutely  nothing in your constitution i mean even  if you look at the history of newspapers  in the united states of america you  might be horrified and terrified to see  the extent to which all of this has been  in the kind of gray area or wild west  situation of making things up as they as  they go all go along by the way simple  question from the audience freda is  asking what history the united states  would you recommend i am recommending  exactly the two books that are in the  description of this video  so  this video even though it is partly a  critique of those two books it is also  an advertisement of those two books and  i'll just say the nature of critique in  this field um both books are are concise  they they have to work within limits  woody holton has only so many pages here  and likewise uh 13 clocks  um parkinson wrote a much longer book  and then 13 clocks is an attempt to make  a more uh  concise  and popular uh version summarizing his  research the formula is much more  one of the ways in which critique works  is where i'm pointing these people and  saying  the problem is because you focused on  this  you omitted or diminished the  significance of that where it's not that  i'm pointing the finger at them and  saying that they're factually wrong but  those differences of emphasis  really do  matter so i've already hinted at the  fact that we're going to be dealing with  with  gun control here  the big breakthrough that's happening i  mean it sounds very 2022 and again this  raises questions of how now people are  creating new myths about  um the constitution and history of the  american revolution one of the big  breakthroughs is just for historians to  admit to themselves genocide really  matters yeah we have  here's a great title at least surviving  genocide by uh by jeffrey hossler um  do you like that one  okay i'm surprised yes sir i i  intentionally didn't show that on camera  yeah you said in the field was well  written  so we have with quite a few books here  melissa was just mentioning some others  that are off camera but yeah i quote  that in my own book but yeah  that's not one i recommend just due to  quality of writing  yeah um all right so this may sound  rather shallow and stupid if you just  say well  genocide of indigenous people really  matters um the enslavement of black  people really matters and it might be  very easy to dismiss that and say okay  well the education i was given in high  school textbooks and perhaps in  university lectures i understand that  perhaps  de-emphasized or omitted the  significance of of of those things but  then nevertheless now if you're going to  give them new emphasis a new place of  prominence uh in your retelling of the  history you might think that that  doesn't really change much of anything  it profoundly changes it totally changes  our understanding of what happened in  the american revolution it totally  changes our understanding of for example  the provision of the right to bear arms  the idea that every every man or every  gentleman  would carry a gun in the united states  of america at the end of that that  revolutionary period those revolutionary  wars so now look sorry just returning to  this issue of one myth replacing another  one set of  lies replacing another um  just as it is possible like a kind of  mass hysteria it's possible for millions  of people to convince themselves that  the constitution um promises you the  right to have an abortion or promises  your right to privacy whether there  isn't one word about that the office of  the constitution nothing like this even  occurred to them it was unimaginable to  them that this is what they were writing  into the constitution well  on a scale of hundreds of millions of  people  americans have convinced themselves that  this is precisely what the the  constitution guarantees them in the same  way  all my life i have heard left of center  people and perhaps some moderate  centrists insisting  that the constitutional right to bear  arms only pertains to  um  members of the military and especially  the local state  state level armed forces and they they  lean on the fact that it contains this  sentence about a well-armed militia that  so this is the claim this is the myth  it's contending to become a dominant  myth in our understanding or  reinterpretation of the of the  constitution the claim is that we all  made a terrible mistake in thinking that  an ordinary private citizen would be  able to own and carry arms that in fact  the framers of the constitution the  office of the constitution that all they  had intended  was for the state to have a well-armed  militia that for the state would have  its own uh military or however you want  to think of this its own gender arms  um  [Music]  and that was all that the the  constitution was providing for now that  is  outrageously  laughably false  and we're left in this situation today  where it's sort of one one myth against  another  and as in the same way that americans  just want to contend with one  interpretation versus another in  relation to um  uh  abortion rights we have one fiction  versus another one myth versus another  one set of lies versus another about the  constitution on the ownership of guns  instead of simply accepting that if you  want to change something in the  constitution the same way the people of  taiwan change their laws about  prostitution back and forth the same way  the people of france change their laws  about prostitution back and forth you  just have to accept that this is a  change this is either a revision or an  amendment or you can tear up your  constitution and write a new one so that  it says what you what you want to say  and again i really think the most  profound and abstract and abstruse thing  to accept here or reflect on is that  there is no  progress  it isn't the case that there was  something  the founding fathers didn't know that  there was something unknown in 1776 like  the nature of tooth decay that now is  known  people in 1776 understood  how guns worked okay they understood how  deadly and dangerous guns were we'll  talk about this a little bit later right  that was that was really fully  profoundly understood and i think you  you really can't imagine how in those  years uh let's just say the 1760s 1770s  1780s just how much experience with  violence these men had just how much  blood they had in their hands uh just as  one example i mean i'll mention benjamin  franklin too i've been reading this  detailed biography of governor morris so  if you don't know who governor moore  says he's one of the most fascinating  figures in the american revolutionary  period american constitution and so on  and so forth one of the most fascinating  and one of the most important and one of  the most forgotten  even for someone like myself who has  read about the history of massacres  under communism  in china in russia and several theaters  someone is familiar with the violence of  the french revolution to read in detail  about governor morris really getting  blood on his hands in the american  revolution really killing people really  um  looting and pillaging from their  political enemies stealing from tories  however you want to put it the the  street level violence in new york city  and governor morris's own role in it  that was shocking to me that was  horrifying to me these men knew violence  and they knew what it was before the  american revolution and they certainly  knew a lot more about it by the end of  the american revolution nobody could  know more the significance of gun  ownership than the authors of the  american constitution and some of these  guys you think of as as men of peace um  someone like benjamin franklin he had a  lot of blood on his hands he had a lot  of very direct experience with violence  with military affairs and this was  really a period of history in which  violence to a much greater extent than  this today it was the domain of amateurs  where they didn't have a professional uh  police force they didn't have a  professional military or they they kind  of sort of did sometimes that's why you  talk about these terms like militia  and minutemen there's a great term what  is a minute man what does that mean  these were farmers and cobblers and you  know some of them aristocrats like  governor morris these are just ordinary  men with ordinary jobs who would snatch  up their guns and run out at a minute's  notice and participate in in violence  where the line between professional and  amateur was blurred or dotted or or  didn't exist now sorry i want to say  this also um i have here it's less and  less impressive than holding up a book i  suppose i have here printed it on paper  it gives you a sense of how few pages  these things are um the constitution of  the state of new york from  april 20th 1777  and the constitution of new hampshire  which managed to be written uh january  1776 and that's the first state to  actually write a constitution of that  in that period now so  if you've  if you think it's humanly impossible to  do that kind of primary source research  you could download these and and print  them out um  the notion of progress it's really  invidious it's really distorting  even in just looking at a single stage  of political development here i'm going  to try to explain you several stages of  development in the revolutionary period  in the year 1776  and in the year 1777 when these men  wrote these uh constitutions  what they were doing  even at the level of propaganda  discourse by which i just mean the  shallowest most public most overt level  of what they were doing politically  was not  progressive it was not taking a step  forward  it was conservative it was taking a step  back  and this stage of the american  revolution  it really can be understood  as  a conservative  revolution in the following terms  boston  was an incredibly important place  politically in this period of time i  mean today we only think of new york and  los angeles  chicago and distant third or something  you know uh in this period of time you  cannot exaggerate the importance of  boston and the state of massachusetts in  american political discourse okay  the people of  massachusetts the people of the city of  boston they had a constitution  both in fact and  in propaganda in their claims of a  propaganda at the time right so as they  articulated their own political position  they had a constitution they had a  system of government that was dear to  them and precious to them and that had  been taken away  by the king of england  in what were called the intolerable acts  now this second point i'm going to come  back to you later  they had a map  of what north america was supposed to be  so you know what we now call the 13  colonies etc etc you get into a lot of  anachronisms even just to describe the  geography as opposed to using the actual  terms they use the time you know but  anyway the map of north america these  colonies that would later become  separated into the united states and  canada et cetera et cetera right  they had a clear sense of what the  political order was and what the  geographic order was  overnight  with the intolerable acts  as as they are called  from the british perspective they were  the tolerable acts but anyway to use a  propaganda term the king of england with  one stroke of the pen had taken away  their constitution had taken away their  system of government whether you think  of that as a democracy as a republic or  as a kind of mixture of the three right  that was the original claim was that  this was a mixture of aristocracy  democracy and uh  monarchy you know  the hybrid polity something that goes  all the way back to cicero and that's a  type of  rationalization of the british  parliamentary system that very much um  was shall we say set in stone it was  very much iterated  defined  examined and redefined very clearly in  the period of the english civil war so  since the english civil war everyone is  aware this is what cicero said this is  what the king of england said this is  what um the  revolution of that time said i.e the  revolution that tore down the king of  england and put oliver cromwell in power  and then this was this was the hybrid  discourse this was the kind of um  reconciliation uh  at the end of oliver cromwell's right  after the death of cromwell when england  reverted to having a monarch but of  course from their perspective they  maintained or sustained the advantages  of republican government that had been  you know briefly but violently um  introduced into the history of england  at this time okay so that kind of hybrid  republican ideology the people of boston  people of massachusetts as a whole right  their claim was that they already had a  constitution that they wanted to go back  to  and that the king of england had taken  this away from them and had appointed a  governor as a kind of dictator sweeping  aside this uh tradition whatever so this  is very very clear if you read the  constitution of new hampshire 72 primary  the constitution of new hampshire 1776  constitution of the state of new york uh  1777.  this is not  presenting you with a  new system of government this is  defending  and perpetuating their old system of  government what both of these  constitutions say again and again is we  are going to go back to the system of  government we already had as a colony  before this confrontation with the king  before the intolerable acts however you  want to put it right now again i am not  saying so so by the way um  there's a very different sense in which  woody halton's work invites us to  reevaluate  the american revolution and the writing  of the constitution as a kind of  counter-revolution as a kind of elitist  revolution from above instead of being a  grassroots democratic revolution from  below there are serious questions here  and i've made other youtube videos uh  talking about that right but by the way  uh  the writing of the constitution this is  several chapters later uh in the history  of the american revolution right and  certainly sorry i don't want to  misrepresent woody holton but i think  one romanticized view  that is going to result from this new  period of scholarship research  re-evaluation of history one  romanticized view is going to be to  imagine that the earlier phase of the  revolution was grassroots and  pro-democracy and then the later phase  of writing the constitution was instead  elitist top-down was this kind of  aristocratic uh counter-revolution  conservative counter-revolution well  again i'm not attributing that view to  woody holton i think that's going to be  probably the mainstream response to his  work into this whole generation of new  scholars uh frankly um  working in the same field in the same  direction along with him well i've  already stated something far more  disturbing to you it's something that  overturns the assumptions about progress  which is that the very first phase  already in 1776 1777 actually what  you're talking about shouldn't be  understood as progress shouldn't be  understood as an experiment with a new  system of government if you just read  the primary source documents if you just  read the constitution which is partly a  work of propaganda right but it's partly  an actual blueprint for how government  will operate right like it can only only  so much of this can be propaganda to  some extent it has to describe the norms  the laws and bylaws we're going to say  the assumptions whereby government is  working is going to operate and this is  telling you very clearly  no new ideas  no new discovery we haven't discovered  penicillin we haven't discovered  fluoride we haven't discovered a cure  for smallpox we haven't discovered the  the scientific nature of malaria malaria  it's remarkably late in our history that  we figure what malaria actually is by  the way um we have a long history of  struggling with the symptoms of malaria  not knowing what it is there's no  scientific breakthrough there's no new  discovery this these state constitutions  before the federal constitution these  are written by men who are saying loud  and clear  they were happy with the system of  government they had before and they want  to go  back to it  now in order to do that  they had to fight a revolutionary war  against the king of england but what  these are telling you very clearly is  that they are going to go back to a  system where they have the same  constitution they have before they have  the whole same legal system they have  before the same courts the same laws  they have a governor the same way they  did before before they had a colonial  governor now they have a colonial  governor again right they're going to  have exactly the same norms and  standards and practices in operating  whether you want to call it a parliament  or a congress or what have you this is  telling you very clearly no innovation  no new ideas and i don't mean to be  insulting but you can read these and  really say  no revolution  right that this is a kind of  anti-revolution or counter  now sorry just to be fair i want to make  this clear  if i had been alive at that time i can  completely understand that i also would  want to fight against the intolerable  acts of king george i mean i totally get  it i am not saying in some simplistic  way this is a phony revolution therefore  it it shouldn't have happened at all i  really can't appreciate what was  intolerable about the intelligence and  why these people rose on them this  brings us to the next important point  and yes all of this is linked to gun  ownership and gun control so again i  wish i could hold up the book in front  of you but um 13 clocks by parkinson all  right  what parkinson uh  demonstrates very very well is this  there is a transition  in the year 1775.  so every year here really matters guys  1774  is not 1775 and 1775 is not 1776. with  each passing year  the political  context  profoundly changes in what would become  the united states of america all right  and  the objectives people are working  towards  and the enemies they're working against  completely change so let's just let's  just go back one more year  in 1773  america is basically basically divided  between tories and whigs  all right and the tory versus wig  discourse  i would say hasn't fundamentally changed  since the end of the english civil war  so again i've already alluded to this  but it is very important to understand  the american constitution you have a new  a new normal is established there's a  there's a loaded political phrase at the  end of the english civil war a new  normal is established new fundamental  assumptions about politics new  fundamental assumptions about religion  and the the profoundest assumption of  all was that england was not going to  imitate  ancient rome england was not going to  imitate  ancient greece that england already had  accomplished cicero's ideal of having a  hybrid form of government that  incorporated the best elements of  democracy along with the best elements  of monarchy and aristocracy now what a  convenient propaganda claim right  obviously plenty of people at that time  could have said what do you mean you  have the best elements of democracy we  have no democracy at all or we have only  a tiny amount of democracy uh england  had a deeply dysfunctional uh system of  elections and uh very very basic  assumptions um so again so i'll give you  just one example i'm not going to launch  into a critique of how the british  system problem worked at that time  the name john wilkes is very important  to know to understand the spirit of  history and unfortunately most americans  they if you say john wilkes they think  of john wilkes booth these are two  completely different historical figures  from different periods of time john  wilkes is not john wilkes booth  muhammad is not muhammad ali  i was once in the classroom a history  classroom and there was a girl who was  insisting that muhammad ali and muhammad  were the same person it was deeply  embarrassing for the the teacher and for  everyone else in the class and we were  kept in trouble no no that's muhammad  that's not muhammad ali those are two  different people  anyway yeah  [Laughter]  very good looking girl too i've never  googled her to find out what what  happened her but i sadly i think she was  one of those women who was too  good-looking  for her own benefit and probably her  parents and her teachers everything she  said you'll be fine you can be a model  and no one was saying to her look kid  keep it straight  your centuries straight here anyway yeah  muhammad is not muhammad ali john wilkes  is not uh john moore's booth so i just  say the life of john wilkes and the  political changes he managed to make in  the british house of parliament just in  the few years immediately before the  american revolution he has a long career  but it culminates just before the  american revolution that shows that most  of our assumptions about how parliament  was supposed to operate were completely  untrue in england in that period for  example this might seem ridiculous to  you the right of a journalist to quote  something that was said in parliament  before this time before john wilkes  challenged it the assumption was that  all negotiations and discussions within  parliament were secret  no one was allowed to publish them in  the newspaper no one was allowed to  quote them no one in the public was  allowed to criticize them so it was a  secret meeting of advisers to the king  or cronies to the king so again like you  might assume that in this period say the  century leading up to  the american revolution that england had  already a robust well-functioning system  of democracy and no these were precisely  the years when in england the nature and  function of parliament was being most  intensely uh debated challenged and  ultimately revised they did they did  make changes  you know john wilkes  won basically and the idea of of how  this hybrid democracy would function uh  in the british isles this was changing  just at this time and that's very much  part of the  whig versus tory discourse as i say  carried on both in england and in north  america throughout this period so my  point is this in 1773  you have the whigs  you have the so-called sons of freedom  sons of liberty these groups now you  have these different groups of  enthusiasts and you have the tories  debating a set of political questions  that have been familiar for many decades  right  doesn't mean they're boring if i'd been  alive at that time i'm sure i would have  been totally engrossed in those debates  what changes i'm sorry i can't hold up  the book  i should hold up my my cell phone  what changes according to this book  uh what changes um according to 13  clocks  and i think the book really does prove  this in a in a powerful way i'll mention  his sources and how he proves it is that  there is a shift  from  tory versus wig  to  everyone versus the slaves  everyone versus the indigenous people  where political discourse fundamentally  changes in terms of us versus them  in the united states of america in 1775  it is no longer a question of for  example to what extent do you support  john wilkes and his reform parliament to  what extent are you enthusiastic about  some of the new models of democracy and  republics in the world notably corsica  corsica is a big deal in this period  it's very important it's prefiguring and  inspiring the american revolution so all  that's going on in in this discourse and  i think what parkinson proves  in  13 clocks is that there was this  profound shift where the us versus them  became white people versus non-white  people that this became a race war and  that that completely uh  preempted  uh silenced the ideological and  political debates that have been going  on before that was so powerful and so  important so all-consuming and  throughout all of the 13 colonies not  just in the deep south not just in  virginia now  so this comes back to one of the light  motifs of this this  video very often the differences between  historians and the difference between  politicians if you like in discussing  politics uh something in the present  tense or discussing it in retrospective  history very often the difference  between two sides is a difference in  emphasis i mean  to say that we have de-emphasized  slavery and genocide in genocide against  the indigenous people in the retelling  and understanding of the american  revolution is an understatement i mean  the extent to which propaganda the way  this history is taught in high schools  universities and seemingly respectful  the the the extent to which we have been  deceiving ourselves and lying to  ourselves is impossible to exaggerate  and when we shift the emphasis to  recognizing the importance of what can  only be called race war a war between  races right  it's not just a difference in emphasis  it's not about being woke or you know  sensitive or progressive or or what have  you it's not just a difference in  sentiment this really does substantively  change the the facts uh  it changes it changes the selection of  facts we're interpreting it changes our  interpretation of the facts it changes  our our understanding and then our  opinions what we're going to conclude  moving forward but what happened needs  to happen next in the united states of  america now i've mentioned it very  briefly but again when you understand  this i'll say a few words about it it is  completely ridiculous to say  that a nation  that had just at that time  been in an intense  armed struggle  against the indigenous people  against  rebellious black slaves  against the british military  right and against the very  nebulous and hard to define  enemy within being the tories being the  united empire loyalists being the people  who remained true to the king of england  right that was a neighbor to neighbor  street to street cutthroat fight people  really had bloodlines to say that those  people did not understand the meaning of  the right to parts  and that's the mainstream left-wing  discourse right now just like it's the  mainstream left-wing discourse that  these guys were pro-abortion or even  conceived of the american constitution  as as legalizing abortion or legalizing  gay marriage that you can interpret this  into a text where this was in no way  intended or hinted at in a vague  statement about life liberty and the  pursuit of happiness just just  ridiculous right now  my claim here is not  to say to you oh well you know these men  knew the correct way to design a  functioning society whereas the japanese  just have no clue  all right the japanese went through a  period of unbelievable violence world  war ii have you heard of it  the level of violence the people of  japan had endured  in case you don't know  for from japan's perspective world war  ii is a lot longer than anywhere else in  the world because it includes what we  call in english the sino-japanese war  right  japan basically had been in a continuous  state of imperialist warfare from before  the beginning of world war one until the  end of world war ii it never stopped it  was one battle after another and it's  it's not just china we say the  sino-japanese war um you know i've  written specifically about the wars uh  between japan and russia at this time  because russia goes all the way east to  sackland island and pushing that border  back and forth you know how much of  sakhalin was going to be japanese how  much was going to be russia the the the  eastern coast of siberia and so on and  by the way japan also had war with the  germans in this period and so on  um the control of qingdao you know okay  so  japan went through a period of  unbelievable violence now it's a slight  simplification to say they came out of  that with the attitude that they would  become a gun-free society and indeed a  society without an army right but you  can say the japanese approach to gun  control right at the end of world war ii  it's completely fundamentally different  from the approach of the united states  of america right and within europe there  are also contrasting approaches you can  contrast switzerland to germany congress  switzerland to france uh switzerland  england right and you can ask who in the  world either um as an ideal or in  practice they're they're achieving a gun  free society a society without guns with  as few guns as as possible right but  again it would be ridiculous to say the  japanese didn't know what they were  doing when they basically banned gun  ownership and decided to not have a  military blah blah blah to only have  self-defer defense forces i'm not gonna  get into all the hypocrisy is entailed  by the japanese constitution which is  still  still their constitution of this day  this post-world war ii uh constitution  written under american dominion shall we  say if  if not outright written by americans  um  you know so  japan has its own history on this issue  taiwan has its own history thailand  there are countries all around the world  and of course most americans they're  engaging with this issue it's very much  impoverished by the fact that they're  not even willing to look at canada next  door they're not willing to consider a  contrasting history that's absolutely  adjacent to them baby if you want to  jump in you can yeah  oh yeah  yes no no no i mean it's true i mean  i've been presuming to talk about  wealthy countries here rather than  poverty stricken and third world  countries so this is  my knowledge i used to live in cambodia  as well as studying the history on paper  but to my knowledge cambodia is a small  country  everyone knows each other you know to  some extent the government isn't that  far moving people but you know there was  an incident when a school kid and i  forget how young this kid was but i  remember being a young kid like i don't  it wasn't of someone who was 18 and in  school i don't know if he was 11 or 8  but it was a young kid was really angry  at another kid  and he went to his father's car  and so this was a wealthy family in  cambodia i forget that they might have  had a limousine driver to pick the kid  up from school kind of thing and he went  and he got a gun out of the car door  and he pointed it at the other kid you  know after after school this this kind  of situation  and you know again just it's little kids  who lose their temper but you know he  knows he's a rich kid and he knows my  father has a gun or he knows his his his  father has a limousine driver who has a  gun whatever exactly the situation was  and that was a breaking point in  cambodian politics where they're like  whoa you know this is the reality of the  society we've got here  and then the question of how this would  change  um but yeah many societies the reality  they live with is that rich people have  guns and poor people have none  and uh that was certainly what  america was reacting against i mean this  was a  unitarian universalist notion that  everyone's gonna have a gun and that  this this would be a wonderful thing so  by the way i have mentioned this before  but if you just look at the constitution  of the state of maine  the many of the founding fathers were  still alive when the constitution of  maine was written and thomas jefferson  participated in writing the  constitutional statement somebody's  saying it's very much part of the same  tradition the same generation the same  values the same assumptions about the  meaning of words the constitutional  state of maine is is really consonant  with i mean it reflects the same  assumptions it's writing the federal  constitution for united states america  against some of the same people involved  again it wasn't an attempt at innovation  i mean it's also worth saying it wasn't  trying to be new and different it was  just carrying on the same tradition and  the constitutional state of maine from  memory i believe the wording is it  simply says um  every man has the right to bear arms to  own guns don't firearms and absolutely  nobody will ever question it close  in scale it's also very intimate  violence  um i can say more about this but i mean  this book that i can  13 o'clock  it really shows you uh there were white  people  who were fighting against their own  former servants like black people who  slept in the same house with them where  the black people slept downstairs and  the white people commit kind of violence  this kind of race war there were owners  of  farms of estates whatever you want to  say  where suddenly the white people were in  a state of war against their farm  workers which is something they had  certainly um  been terrified of for many years leading  up to this it wasn't a possibility they  had never imagined however what they had  never imagined was that their slaves  would be armed by the king of england  to fight against them and masculine that  was beyond their worst nightmares they  had been prepared for and afraid of a  slave uprising a slave rebellion but  this was a slave uprising of slave  rebellion  armed by encouraged by funded by  the king of england himself just saying  this is violence that's not only  enormous in scale but it's door-to-door  violence it's within your house it's on  your city block  your farm your forest you know it was  violence everywhere  now again japan at the end of world war  ii had just lived through a period of  tremendous violence there isn't some  kind of simple cause and effect  relationship where the experience of  violence results in a resolution like  the american constitution or the  constitution of the state of maine so on  and so forth right you could have that  experience of violence instead become a  society that's very controlling of uh  munitions armaments uh etc but i'm just  saying you have to respect and take  seriously this was the american response  right their response to the experience  of race war in this period  because there what i mean sorry you can  go back to christopher columbus in the  1490s um  there were many different discrete  periods where you're talking about  genocidal war and wars of whites against  blacks and slave uprisings so and so  forth obviously immediately prior to the  american revolution uh you can look at  the island of haiti you know i'm sorry  the revolution of haiti kind of goes on  forever that's both before and after and  during i mean haiti  things are dropped for  more than a century there it's a long  long history babe you want your bit yeah  yeah yeah part of the reason why i was  mentioning the bernard baylen book the  barbarous years is because he does talk  about these  violent  these interactions between the colonists  and the native people so i i just think  that's also  uh important to read that history where  uh in the 1600s yes there were just  constantly conflicts going on and this  did inform you know  the writing of these constitutions that  they are aware  yeah this is always a threat this is  always something that they're terrified  of uh and that's part of the reason why  it's been written into the constitution  um right well what i would say with that  so she's shouting out again a book uh  called by called the barbarous years by  uh by bailin uh and that author bernard  balan he was really famous for his work  as a young man he kind of had hit books  that were very influential and this is  him writing as as an old man at the end  of his career that he writes the barber  series  the world as woody holton  presents or represents it the world is  woody holden perhaps misrepresents it he  very much presents to us the conclusion  that the period of the american  revolutionary war was the final period  in which  the indigenous people were a serious  armed threat where they really had the  chance to fight and win against the  white man to simplify against eric  collins now  so look again i'm not saying that's  that's untrue but um  what i would emphasize is this for the  white people who were alive at that time  and who were writing the american  constitution they did not know it was  the the final period  for them that situation which again is  so in this period of time my point is i  mean if you're talking about california  in the 19th century it's totally  different i'll show you about hawaii  like it was not the case that white  people in hawaii were afraid centuries  later right it wasn't the case that  there was this kind of ongoing armed  conflict where white people thought they  were going to be murdered in their sleep  by the indigenous people but yeah i mean  in talking about  bernard balen's the barbarous years  leading up to the american revolution  and the writing of constitution  there is this long period where the  indigenous people from the perspective  of the white colonists they have the  numbers they have the armaments and they  have the level of organization to really  be a serious threat to really end their  colonies to wipe them out and where the  the white people again including  benjamin franklin benjamin franklin  literally went on the warpath of hunting  and killing indigenous people he was  directly involved with that he was  pulling triggers and marching with uh  with minutemen whatever you want to say  marching with armed volunteers to go out  and fight against the indigenous people  so i mean again it just makes it very  palpable this wasn't something they  studied in a university classroom on a  chalkboard  ben franklin had blood on his hands he  knew the smell of gunpowder he knew what  it was to go out and fight the  indigenous people i'm not glorifying it  i'm saying this was their physical  reality  so yeah i just say it's very easy to  look back at that anachronistically and  say okay well this was the final period  in which the indigenous people were a  threat and then after that we get into a  long period of history with white people  completely dominate the continent  militarily economically and  uh you know politically where there  really aren't two voices in the dialogue  but it's true to say i mean on the one  hand yeah we just need to emphasize that  the genocide have been going on since  columbus yeah but then i think the other  thing i'd say is that this was also a  long period where the genocide had had  real negotiations where there were two  sides negotiating peace treaties and so  is that the emphasis you bring to it or  no one well yes that's what um and i  just want to say uh the reason why i'm  mentioning that that book is because um  in surviving genocide i don't feel like  there's as much emphasis on these bloody  conflicts like these  you know just  uh  these conflicts that were going on um  as  and also just in what i uh was taught in  my education you know um  i was told you know how horrific that  the genocide was in in  the united states but not so much about  the native response that they also were  armed and that they also were a threat  but that up to this period there were  very much two sides to the conflict that  they are fighting back and there's the  prospect of them of them winning  i don't know if it was in 13 o'clock um  but  just in exchange for  a weapon the native people agreed to  fight in the counter-revolutionary  oh yeah yeah  right so just so it is  um  uh  anyway yeah look um  sorry i don't know i don't want to get  to the the history of that who were the  indigenous people and what motivated  them and and what were they what were  they fighting for  um  you know for the purposes of this video  i want to say this  um  probably your high school textbooks  about world war ii your high school  textbooks about the holocaust about a  very different genocide probably your  high school textbooks included some  explanation of  some reflection of the extent to which  germans  whether this is sane or insane germans  blamed the jews for having let them down  in world war one  now i think this is a very minor part of  the history of of nazi ideology but  there is truth to us again this is an  issue where the dispute is about  emphasis not about facts  all of the accounts of  the  nazi period world war ii genocide period  that i read  whether in high school or university the  accounts that were given to me as  opposed to the research i did apparently  they always emphasized this  that  the germans had a feeling that they  could have won in world war one if they  weren't let down by  their own side by kind of the peace  protesters on their own side and the  feeling that the jewish population  as this more cosmopolitan pro peace that  there would have been some number of  jewish people marched in anti-war  protests and so on that this was part of  what let their side down in world war  one now i've by the way i've made other  youtube videos talking about the history  of of nazi ideology i think that is  ep  i think that is a tiny part of the  history of of nazi ideology and  anti-semitism in germany i think it's  ridiculous to give that the emphasis  that textbooks regularly do but  nevertheless even if it is a p rather  than a cantaloupe um in its size and  significance in this history you can see  the way that we're construing history  there is to try to um  convey a psychological motive whereby  the german people whether this be  rational irrational whether this be sane  or inside insane felt that they were  getting revenge  against an ethnic minority among them  who had been on the other side in world  war one that's that's how we're  constraining us now again i've stated  appeal i disagree with  this interpretation but i understand how  it makes a coherent and compelling  narrative  out of the inter-war years the wars in  between uh world war one and world war  ii  so sorry if if your textbooks didn't  teach it to you this way that's fine um  i have a video that has a cult in the  title the occult origins of nazi  ideology and that really gives you a  sense of just how insane the nazis were  and i i think in writing a rational  history  kind of by definition we're diminishing  the irrational aspects of history we're  rationalizing history whether we want to  or not so that's anyway you can watch a  separate video on that you can think  about what i've said with that if you  want to  i'm mentioning this here as a kind of  allegory to clarify what i'm trying to  say about the american revolution  how much more intense  was the racism at that time in  1776 right like can you imagine  the intensity of the racism  given that what had just happened  was that the king of england  had armed the black slaves and the  indigenous people the native people had  armed them to fight against  the white colonists  right  can you imagine a scenario in which  during world war one it's it's in  incomprehensible what if  during world war one the king of germany  i realized  there wasn't a king of germany at this  time this is an acronym in various ways  but just imagine hypothetically if the  king of germany  had armed the jews  to fight against the germans within his  own  country it's surreal it's  incomprehensible how much more intense  would the anti-semitism have been how  much more intense would the genocide  have been  in response to that right so the point  is this  whatever state americans were at in 1773  and even 1774 in their  discourse on race their discourse on the  abolition of slavery right this was  profoundly changed  the moment guns were being put in the  hands  of  african-american people enslaved people  guns were being put in the hands by the  king of england right to fight against  white americans now the issue with  indigenous people native people  in some ways it's different but in some  ways it's worse  everyone was prepared for the  possibility of a slave uprising as i  said before nobody was prepared for the  king of england himself employing the  slaves as his minions in fighting  against the white colonists that was  worse than the worst nightmare that the  slave owning class of society could have  or any of the white people who lived in  what had what had been you know what in  some ways an integrated society just  people were living in communities where  the blacksmith was was ethnically black  and again you have to remember not all  black people were slaves there were also  freed men there were black people who  were not slaves who owned different  kinds of small businesses their  political rights were drastically worse  than a white person  but there were liberated black people uh  who were also an important part of  society and indeed that even comes up in  these slave rebellions they're very  often led by a free black  leading enslaved blacks to rebel and get  their own freedom and so on you know so  just say the significance of the free  blacks within uh racially bifurcated  slave societies is also uh very  important anyway so  that's  that side of the equation  the indigenous people had been employed  in one war after another as mercenaries  by all of the european powers so that  was what everyone was accustomed to  right so everyone was accustomed to the  idea that when there was a war with  spain  the spanish monarchy would try to arm  recruit and even kind of bribe  indigenous people with some kind of  promise or some kind of payment and what  melissa was mentioning as soon as the  payment was the guns themselves was just  giving them rifles giving them guns  because these were they were valuable  and useful objects but there might be no  no payment other than the armaments  saying hey look we will give you these  guns if you agree to fight against uh  the british uh colonists  everyone was accustomed to the idea that  the french  would arm  indigenous people to fight against the  english the spanish would arm indigenous  people the fight against the english and  the french zone and so forth what was  shocking and horrifying about this is  this time the target is us  if you were living in a place like  boston or a place like new york still to  this day  new york is walking distance from  montreal i mean it's a long walk but  i know we think of these things as far  apart think about an army that just has  to march from montreal to new york city  before new york state is even closer the  border interstate these things are not  far off okay the very familiar pattern  of the indigenous people being used as  mercenaries now was being used against  the white colonists so again to say this  is a difference merely an emphasis in  the interpretation of history right  obviously we're completely lying about  we're completely misrepresenting history  when we diminish this okay  so this is what i want to say this is  now my critique this is the portion  we're going to criticize both woody  holton and 13 clocks by by parkinson  and it's a further difference in  emphasis  and again making the very significant  caveat these men they they've tried to  be concise  they're not telling the entire history  of everything from alpha to omega and  again some of the many of the other  books i have in this stack are so  enormous  yeah yeah right yeah um anyway uh yeah  so what is this the framers coup which i  don't recommend there's over 800 pages  you know so partly concision is is part  of the problem i understand  and then we're going to come back to  this question of gun ownership and the  amendment of the american constitution  if you have a moment now hit the thumbs  up button  uh sorry i was i meant to say at the  very beginning of this video if you guys  have something to say if you have a  question ask about  the regulation of  munitions in the united states america  the regulation of gun ownership think  about it now and kind of ask because i'm  going to enter into this critique of the  history of the revolution i'm writing  the constitution and then i'm going to  return to the discussion of gun  ownership so you don't have to type it  right now but  rub the sticks together and come up with  an intelligent question i will return to  that and again you can ask it down and  i'll scroll up or you can  you can ask it when the when the time  comes uh toward the end of this this  portion of the video that's that's a  critique  um  i think it's really easy to lose sight  of the importance of the intolerable  acts  with this new emphasis with the the the  focus the analytical framework brought  to the history  and they are two very different authors  by the way by woody holton and by uh  parkinson  now again partly this is just  chronological  the intolerable acts they matter  they're tremendously important  but for a short period of time  and i'm saying this because i find  convincing  the argument in 13 clocks that after a  certain point  the race war completely takes over and  dominates the american mind the american  imagination  um and again the the disputes that used  to exist  of tori against whig  the philosophical debates that very much  were written rooted in oliver cromwell's  period of dictatorship and republicanism  in england all of that feeds into the  background we can't quite say it's  forgotten  um but frankly the  parlor room discussion of the ideal  constitution that john adams very much  engages in for hundreds and hundreds of  pages right that really doesn't matter  anymore with this turning point in 1775  what utterly matters what's totally  animating everyone again not just in  virginia even in the the far north  is this race war discourse war against  enslaved black americans war against  indigenous people okay  here's my problem with that  we have to take seriously  what was it about the intolerable acts  that really was intolerable that lit the  fuse for this war and i feel informed  and shaped the successive stages of the  civil war revolution and writing of the  constitution now  i am a very eccentric  political philosopher  in that if you make a list of what was  supposedly intolerable about the  intolerable acts 8 out of 10 points on  that list i think are [ __ ]  and you know [ __ ] can be an  important part of history [ __ ] like  propaganda matters too and you can  examine it and analyze it but a lot of  this stuff you have to say was just  [ __ ] it was just propaganda so i'll  give you a great example did you know  that there was a popular theory among  the nazis that they were direct  descendants of atlantis atlantis and  lemuria this guy like you can look into  just how crazy  it was [ __ ]  hate to break this to you the german  people are not the descendants of  ancient atlantis or something you know  like you can look at some things in  politics that maybe they matter they  matter to what extent but they would  japanese politics is actually really  really surreal that way uh too  by the way i'm sorry if you look at the  history of japan just really crazy  including sorry it was very very popular  the belief in japan that jesus christ  visited japan the the historical jesus  went oh yeah yeah  that's that's a thick book in the  library okay i want to get to japanese  christian literature about uh you know  the buddha sorry but it's true i was  going to say both both jesus christ  physically going to japan and the buddha  physically going to japan and that that  kind of mythos so once there can be  completely a historical notions that are  complete [ __ ] that may be important  at one period of time sometimes [ __ ]  matters  when i'm looking at  the intolerable acts  my fundamental point is maybe eight out  of ten  are tolerable and we are just looking at  very insincere propaganda from the whigs  from the sons of freedom sons of liberty  trying to put together a rationalization  for  you know a a rebellion that would ensue  but for very different reasons  this is my take on this so again some of  those issues some of those questions  they were very familiar for decades they  weren't new they weren't sudden they  weren't unexpected and they've been  rehearsed at least since the  english civil war blah blah blah okay  but when you're looking at the  intolerable acts  what is new  what is different  and i feel all i feel every single book  i've ever read about the american  revolution every single book i've read  about the constitution completely misses  the significance of this okay  what was new what was different what was  intolerable was the quebec act  every single version of the history i've  ever encountered including in high  school  takes the  position  that at this time there was a  regrettable sort of racism against  catholics that you know the protestants  were just kind of bigoted so really for  no good reason at all  uh people were hostile toward the idea  of the king of england recognizing um  the catholic church within quebec it  creeps in in this way as a footnote to a  footnote  of the history of the revolution what i  have to say is you are dead wrong  like  the depth of misinterpretation  misrepresentation misconception there we  have to really take seriously  and the quebec act and what it meant to  anyone alive in the 13 colonies at that  time right it's astonishing it's  breathtaking it's intolerable it's  enough alone to make you get up and take  arms and fight against the king of  england to fight against the king whom  you had been loyal to just six months  before or just three months before like  before we were just having this kind of  endless decades-long debating party  about what is the ideal constitution and  again john adams is an example of this  and so on you have these guys who are  kind of sitting around saying well we  have the legacy of oliver cromwell there  was certainly a huge fashion for reading  um historians of ancient rome  athens became more popular later a lot  of the interest was in rome there was a  lot of interest in sparta in this period  yeah rome and sparta not athens for  whatever strange reason you know oh  let's sit around and kind of reflect on  what is the ideal constitution what is  the role of democracy that was that was  going on okay  what the quebec act pardon me what the  quebec act showed on an enormous scale  i'm going to try to describe this  was the same thing that the abrogation  of the constitution of of massachusetts  the replacement of the the system of  government in boston showed on a tiny  scale with one stroke of the pen  the king of england  had  wiped out and overturned everything that  englishmen in america had been fighting  for  not just in the seven years war what  some people still call the french indian  war but everything they've been fighting  for going back to  oliver cromwell and the english  revolution okay so the quebec act  suddenly radically redraws the map of  north america and again i've only ever  seen this admitted as a kind of funny  footnote to history it's like oh yeah  you know  isn't it a funny thing you know actually  at this time at the same time these  exciting important things were happening  in america like at the same time the  boston tea party happened like that's  where all the emphasis is is this  you know the boston tea party is treated  as being of such tremendous significance  the king of england drew a new map of  the continent  that  indescribably expanded the territory of  quebec  and his guys you can look it up on  wikipedia what this was what the how  what the quebec i would all of a sudden  extends the territory of quebec all the  way west to the the part of north  america that's dominated by spain still  the spanish north america it's not just  the ohio valley it's the whole uh great  lakes area all coasts of all sorts we've  got seven great lakes right all five  sorry all five of the great lakes every  coast north south east and west this is  completely gobbled up by quebec and what  does it do with the government of quebec  it wipes out the the progress i mean i'm  critical of the concept of progress but  the progress people were committed to  this idea that we'd made progress toward  a hybrid system of government of  parliaments yes there's some role for  the aristocrat some role for the king  but you have parliaments you have  democracy you have transparency of  accountability the the progress that so  many people had fought and died for to  have separation of church and state  i will say for the one thousandth time  they did not have perfect separation of  church and state they had extremely  imperfect separation of church and state  but if you were comparing the dark ages  to what england had after oliver  cromwell after the english civil war it  was a huge step forward and it made life  possible for the puritans it made life  possible for the quakers it made life  possible for the um  what was the word the non-consenting  denominations that a special term for  this i'm sorry but anyway for um  unconventional dissident forms of  christianity to exist which was exactly  what had been so intensely persecuted  throughout the dark ages no  the amount of religious freedom even for  catholics even for jews let alone for  africans african slaves the amount of  religious freedom for indigenous people  you know like there's there are  tremendous hypocrisies here but from the  perspective of someone alive at that  time they would say what have we been  fighting for all these centuries  just to have the king of england reverse  all of it with one stroke of the pen to  totally redraw the map of north america  it changed what had been known as the  free state line the land that was  allotted for the indigenous people it  massively expanded quebec and what was  the new system of government created in  this quebec i mean we can't even call it  quebec but this this massive expansion  of quebec to be a huge part of the  continent it was going to be absolutely  zero democracy there was going to be one  governor assigned as a dictator by the  king of england and he was going to work  with the catholic church who would again  be allowed to collect tithes they would  return to the the the system of religion  that had existed since the dark ages all  right now there's there's an even darker  part of this history which certainly  matters this year canada a great deal  the enormity of quebec and this all  being a return to dictatorship out of  the dark ages what was north of quebec  was even worse that was so-called  rupert's land that was going to be  corporate rule again no democracy the  king of england works with the hudson  bay company works with a for-profit  corporation to make as much money as  possible exploiting the indigenous  people exploiting the natural resources  no again  sorry what happened to  um the hybrid system of government that  again even if you think it's only five  percent democracy whether it's five  percent or fifty percent it's a matter  of opinion right what happened to the  parliamentary system of government we  fought so hard for and that again in  some ways is old news because the  english civil war feels a long time ago  but in some ways it's brand new we all  just lived through the drama of john  wilkes we all just lived through the  struggle for the reform and you know  improvement of democracy in england that  were form of this was really the golden  era of the idea of freedom of the press  the idea of public participation and  democracy the idea that we now  completely take for granted of what um  uh  what a parliament is supposed to be so  on and so forth right so of all the  intolerable acts  the  most intolerable of all  was um  the quebec act  and there was a vision for the future of  north america there  which was again it was so horrifying it  was so shocking that i can say if i were  alive at that time i would suddenly want  to take up arms against the king of  england and and fight and this is a  stage as they say prior to  the race war discourse taking over the  war against blacks the war against  indigenous people um so on and so forth  uh  and it's interesting because this the  significance of the quebec act i feel  like it was forgotten  by the old version of of history  and i i i think it is still being  forgotten by the new version of history  the new analysis the new approach to the  history that's being retold now by  people like woody holton and parkerson  and 13 clocks so uh you say a little bit  more about 13 clocks now so we have  someone who's obviously incredibly  stupid in the audience  um and i think he's trying to get  himself uh  so shout out to iowa x in the audience  iowa x says quote  armed slaves were ineffective at best  and a minor footnote in the american  revolution  close quote  i don't think you've read one book on  this topic  i don't think you've read one wikipedia  article on this topic you don't know  what you're talking about  and the book you need to read it's not  that long a book i forget if it's 200  pages 250 pages the book you need to  read is 13 clocks  all right that is the book and the link  is in the description  so i'm sorry you are factually wrong  and the idea that armed slaves were a  minor footnote in the american  revolution  that may be a lie your school teachers  told you and maybe a lie you you read in  a textbook like in a seemingly  respectable textbook and it may be a lie  you made up in your own mind like i  don't know where you got that from all  right that is utterly untrue  now i'm going to mention this briefly so  i'm saying this partly to promote 13  clocks and i'm saying this partly as a  critique of 13 o'clock  um  the main source 13 clocks works from  are the newspapers throughout the 13  colonies throughout the the new world  uh i don't know if he included you know  newspapers from saint montreal it's  mostly about you know what would become  the united states american that's that's  all does he did he include newspapers  from say jamaica  i've seen a few quotes from jamaica in  the book because they just say before  america achieves independence  the 13 colonies are very much part of  one  one uh empire with places like kingston  jamaica and montreal and so on and so  forth you know  but anyway he read  every page  of every newspaper for a period of  something like 15 years leading up to  the american revolution now he says this  himself in interviews in case that  sounds like an enormous amount of  reading  part of his research was to track this  the reality was like one newspaper in  philadelphia would publish a certain  article  and then it would be reprinted verbatim  a few weeks later or a month later in  virginia in uh  in boston so on and so forth so if he  was looking at say  25 newspapers it wouldn't be that time  consuming because absolutely the same  article would appear again and again so  he would have read it once and then when  he started he'd actually check to see if  there were changes sometimes there were  changes  right like sometimes uh something he  points out is oh the newspaper in  philadelphia took exactly the same  article but they put this part in  italics and they added just one sentence  about how terrible so he actually  notices the changes too so this gives  you anyway just say this is a really  robust empirical basis for the  conclusions he's drawing now i'm about  to to criticize it um  but the sense of  fear  of having the slaves rise up  the slaves being armed  in your town in your village that is  recorded very well by those local  newspapers and it's not just in the deep  south it's not just in uh  south carolina et cetera in the  carolinas or whatever example you want  to use a place that a place that  stereotypically has has a lot of uh  slavery now you know so to give an  example uh in virginia  the royally appointed governor so the  king's governor the governor who's  working for the king of england he set  out a proclamation  and you can read the primary  source text now you can read the actual  wording he uses he put out a  proclamation  that declares all of the slaves free  and then invites them if they're  able-bodied to come and be armed and  fight for the king  the wording is intentional all right now  by the way this is my own observation  this is actually not in 13 clocks and  it's not in woody holden's book also he  does not say as one of the emperors of  rome would say he doesn't say  if you sign up and join the army and  fight for five years then as a reward we  will give you  freedom it is not this kind of  contractual phrasing  it declares  all of the negroes free it declares all  black slaves free  and then there's a comma  and able-bodied black slaves are invited  to join in the king's struggle  against  the revolution okay this was the most  terrifying the most transformative  proclamation  the governor of virginia could have  possibly made and i think 13 o'clock  does a very good job of contextualizing  it that he was just in he he was in a  desperate position and desperate  situation he was sleeping on a boat  every night i assumed  during the daytime they got out and  walked around on land a bit but  he was operating his government from a  small boat on the coast of virginia  because there was no city where he was  safe  sleeping at night because of the fear  that these american revolutionaries  would burn his house down would capture  him so on and so forth so he was he was  in a very real state of peril  yes the slave uprisings  mattered  right they had a galvanizing terrifying  effect  on the white colonists of north america  and i can say we can't say coast to  coast in this period from north to south  all right now yes by the way the worst  case scenario for that kind of slave  revolution they already knew about from  the history of haiti they knew how far  it could go they knew what slaves were  capable of to what extent the slaves  knew that is another question okay but  this was not a slave rebellion these  were slaves being offered freedom  in exchange for  killing white people  with the  full  legal support  financial support of the king of england  that's something very different from  just a slave uprising or slave rebellion  it's slaves being encouraged to rebel  and rise up right  while being a mercenary for the king of  england being assured you'll you will be  given impunity you will not be put on  trial it's not like if you engage now in  uh murder raping and looting that later  you'll fear going to prison the king of  england is telling you that he's going  to give you impunity he's going to give  you armaments he's going to give you  guns  to rise up now  13 clocks is an interesting book in many  different ways one of the things this  book draws attention to again and again  is the total um hypocrisy of the white  colonist side who are simultaneously  preaching a revolution in the name of  freedom preaching a revolution so that  they themselves will not be slaves  they're talking about their own liberty  and at the same time like sometimes in  the same newspaper but someone's in the  same article in the same paragraph  they're pointing the finger at the  slaves and saying how terrible it is  that they're fighting for their liberty  they're fighting for their freedom now i  want to make a very quick contrast here  who the hell  would fight a war  because of the boston tea party who is  going to fight a war because they don't  want to pay taxes  on t and what do the taxes pay for they  pay for the british navy  which makes it possible to export tea  from india to boston like it is very  obvious why americans need to pay taxes  on tea especially on things that are  imported and exported across this globe  spanning  empire that the british have created it  costs a lot of money and  yet taxes on t  make sense americans should pay taxes on  t to fight because you don't want to pay  taxes on t this is a really thin pretext  for revolution the black people of  america the slaves of america they were  fighting for their freedom they were  fighting for their survival they were  fighting for something very real and  very palpable what they were fighting  for their passion their purpose there's  no comparison between  what motivated what fueled um you know  the uh the  slaves in the in the american revolution  all right so um  do you want to say something yeah  i just want to say as an american yes it  was my experience learning about the  american revolution that  most of the emphasis was on the boston  tea party most of the emphasis was on  the independence of the american  colonies from england yeah so it's just  i think this 13 clocks book and this  live stream is extremely important for  americans to hear because i do think it  puts things in a very different context  when you see it as slaves fighting for  their liberty that this was  on offer you know that this was what  they could potentially  have gotten from fighting for the  counter-revolutionary forces that that  was the most terrifying thing of all not  not being under the dominion of the king  of england but you know the this fear  that there would be this uprising of you  know and  just  this wasn't emphasized you know of  course uh in my textbooks and in you  know classroom lectures they did talk  about slavery the you know evils of  slavery but just you know thinking of  what society was like at that time just  the constant tension  constant you know fear  that was going on yeah i do think that's  i it's just a very stupid comment from  that yeah  no i understand but what he's reflecting  is the propaganda that most of us were  raised with i mean his way of putting it  he said the slave uprisings were a minor  footnote well you were probably taught  the revolution in haiti was a minor  footnote too like you probably thought  the haitian revolution didn't matter i  would maybe taught all kinds of things  as opposed to saying no this really  mattered this really influenced the  history of the world  um  you know i would say too  there's a relatively long history um in  these colonies and in europe generally  also of offering freedom  to the slaves on the other side who will  fight for your side so it wouldn't have  been inconceivable to them  that uh you know for example when the  british tried to conquer haiti which  they did they tried they failed you know  um you know that in trying to conquer a  place like that that the british would  say okay we will give freedom to the  slaves that fight on our side against  the french or in some other context  against the spanish but this was  uniquely horrifying it was inconceivable  that for example the governor of  virginia and he wasn't the only one  that throughout the 13 colonies that the  british empire the king himself would  offer freedom to the slaves in order to  fight against white englishmen people  who had been in that was what was so  uniquely horrifying and terrifying about  that yeah but yeah i know but however  it's true i mean  even at the best of times this was a  society of armed  slave owners  who literally had to watch the powder  keg they had to watch where the  gunpowder was stored to prevent it being  taken by the slaves to prevent slaves  capturing munitions capturing gunpowder  and being able to raise up their own  flag and rebellion and fight for their  own freedom and by the way that's a  discourse in terms of all these guys who  grew up with ancient roman literature  whether that's from plutarch or polybius  or whatever polybius plugin is both  greek and roman in effect anyway another  story but whether  ancient greece or ancient rome but  especially with ancient rome you know  the the idea of slave rebellion and of  of class struggle you know between the  patrician class and the poor the plebs  and the  slaves and so on  that was something they were also  completely  prepared for by their neoclassical  education the idea that the slaves are  at any given time trying to rise up and  tear your society down that's absolute  that's written into the predominantly  latin texts but to some extent greek  texts that at that time were worshipped  and it really is especially plutarch  it's plutarch's lives is probably the  most popular the most widely read and  enjoyed of those texts and that's that's  rehearsed there again and again that  idea that the lower orders of society  are trying to tear down the patrician  class the aristocrats the privilege the  wealthy however you want to think of  this and again you see that  that's very much what consumes uh john  adams and the other people who are in  the kind of constitutional debating  society in the years  yeah i don't want to get too off topic  but i will just say the part of what is  discussed in woody holton's book is  about the financial aspect yes right and  the fact that um you know it just  you know it's putting the pieces  together for me and i really do  appreciate this um not only the book but  your discussion on this because when i  was younger i just kind of took it as a  fact that it was like oh well these acts  were intolerable the stamp act and you  know this kind of thing but uh right you  know they were left in a much worse  financial situation after the  revolutionary war that's right um for  decades that followed so i you know and  yes the amount of funds  were required for this war you know it's  it's just it seems right well i'd say  that too i think  as with uh rationalizations for the  reasons for for  world war ii for what the nazis did in  that in that period  well actually this is even more true of  world war one  but anyway people often want to impose a  rational economic motive on history and  there has been a lot of that in the  understanding of american revolution and  then later the writing american  constitution and yes that's one of the  most important contributions of woody  holton is to say no economically this  does not make sense and and here's the  reality of what was going on  economically instead yeah that that's a  very very powerful revelation from from  woody holton but likewise i'm saying  something different here this is not  really the period hold and talks about  it's not it's not his interest i'm  saying when you're looking at 1774 1775  this  period when these tremendous changes are  happening you can't make sense out of  this economic in this way as you've said  it's not the case there's some kind of  dry calculation of oh well look how much  we're spending on taxes when we buy tea  we'll get a better deal if we if we  registerly rebel against the king and  again keep in mind this is the same king  you were fighting with shoulder to  shoulder this is the british crown you  fought for king and country against the  french  in the seven years war i mean everyone  okay not everyone alive some people were  born so real you know but the vast  majority of men who were old enough to  engage in political debates including  benjamin franklin and so on all of them  remembered the seven years war they  remember fighting with  the king of england against the french  and as people say against the french and  indians um  now  you were fighting  with the french  the american revolutionaries entered  into an alliance  with the french with the king of france  against england right  so  do you understand the type of treason  the type of betrayal the type of  reversal within one man's lifetime i  mean like again within benjamin  franklin's life and were generally any  of these people if you weren't a  teenager right at that moment you know  some people were but anyone who was  middle-aged let alone elderly or  something at these political events  unfolded the the  the depth of that treason the depth of  that betrayal to fight against the king  of england in an alliance with the  french and also they eventually they're  in alliance with the spanish  to work with the spanish monarchy and  the french market against the king of  england what moves you to that level of  commitment  my answer is it's not the tax antique  it's not like that's that when you look  at the intolerable acts it's the quebec  act that's really intolerable and then  as i say i i do think this is this  important clarification that after the  period where the intolerable acts  matter then we move into this period of  race war so and so forth yeah great yeah  yeah  um  there there are many so i'm going to  again enter into this a little bit of a  critique of 13 clocks  um there are many elements of the book  that are touching to me  and one of them again again  recognizing this that in history there  is no progress if you guys have a second  hit the thumbs up by the way we have 37  people in the audience be great if we  have 37 thumbs up helps people discover  the video later and so on it will help  people join the conversation right now  in theory  um  okay i'll enter into the critique first  i would say it's a little bit  emotionally touching to me for example  when 13 clocks reflects on the fact  that the anti-slavery movement the  abolitionist movement it came and went  in popularity you know like i mean it's  so obvious anyone who reads history in  enough detail but like you want to  believe that it's like a scientific  discovery that's like discovering the  light bulb that it's like discovering  penicillin it's like discovering  fluoride or something and it's not you  know like oh yeah for a couple of years  here everyone thought they were about to  abolish slavery and there was this  really clear sense of purpose and then  you know  it went out of style for 20 years and  then you know then it came in fashion  later and then 30 years after that like  when you really are reading primary  source history that the interest in the  abolition of slavery comes and goes  right  and  i feel that you do get a sense i mean  emotionally as well as factually uh that  just a few years before the american  revolution say 1773  there was tremendous enthusiasm for the  abolition of the slave trade and for  greater equality between uh blacks and  whites put it that way that there was  and by the way some participants in the  american revolution were  were part of that tendency the main one  i want to mention is benjamin rush so  benjamin rush is is forgotten today so  is governor morris so are all these  people but there were some people  benjamin rush he was a medical man he  was a medical doctor of of his time and  he completely  [Music]  committed to the position that black  people and white people were  biologically equal that they were equal  in intelligence and that the physical  differences were trivial like they  differed in their complexion but like  this was not he that was really he was  really ahead of his time on that and you  know  but by contrast take a look at what  thomas jefferson's attitudes were  towards black people want to really be  horrified you know this is a terrible  book about a terrible this is a terrible  book written by a terrible person about  a terrible person i do not recommend  this book but for various reasons it's a  it's a hilarious example of to hold up  here  um  anyway so there were there were some  people involved in the in the american  revolution who were ahead of their time  but there were a whole lot who were  behind the time and  it is not the case that there was an  unambiguous unidirectional progress  uh towards abolition i'm glad to see  oliver is in the audience um  i meant to  tell melissa to note down the time when  i switch between topics here i will when  this video is over some of the next few  days i will add a table of contents so  that people can find this video and i'm  going to send this video to woody holt  and i'm going to send it to the author  13 clocks to  parkinson i'll try to i'll invite them  to see the video because those guys they  don't have a whole lot of youtube videos  and podcasts discussing their work i  hope they hope they appreciate hearing  the discussion but i can imagine also  they might want to just click on the  timestamp oh this is the part where he  criticizes me okay all right so look  i've i've mentioned the  strength  of the empirical basis for  the approach in in 13 clocks and  actually melissa very efficiently  mentioned the strength of woody holden's  approach also which is economic so to  speak  obviously it's both politics and  economics but this is really a new  revelation of the approach to to the  economics of the period that woody  holton uh brings to and i've made other  youtube videos discussing that in depth  in the past  um  there is a reciprocal  weakness  with either of these men and i think i  can ask anyone in the current generation  pushing the interpretation of uh  american revolution constitutional  direction with any of this current uh  generation of new authors  how often  do you see quoted  the perspective of the king of england  himself  now i am not saying this because i  support the king of england or  sympathize with his perspective but like  you've done all this work with the  primary sources getting the voices of  the people who were actually there in  the massacre you know what i mean people  who are there with their their muskets  like you're getting really first-person  perspective on this history on the  american side  but that's not the only side  and i've said in earlier videos  a big part of this  shift  in our understanding of what happened is  just the digitization of archives that  before it was very difficult physically  to go through and read all these texts  now increasingly through the  internetization of all things the things  being scanned and  computerized it's become much easier to  find what you want to read and to survey  and look through a huge pile of  documents back when i was a scholar of  buddhism i did that all the time you  know i did work with paper but you have  a huge corpus of text from ancient  buddhism and people say like how many  times is slavery mentioned or something  you could go through and look at just  look at the parts about slavery so our  ability to do that is is increasing  worldwide okay well guess what the  archives  of  private letters between founding fathers  in america  the archives of newspapers published in  the revolutionary period america  right those aren't the only archives  that matter  what about the archives in england  and i mean it's going to include things  like  some of the  british governors who maybe later wrote  their autobiography you know like i mean  some of the participants on the british  side it's probably not going to be from  the king himself that you get a sense of  what the what the what the king is  saying some  noble lords and ladies some aristocrats  who were close to the star chamber close  to the the highest levels of british  government um maybe in their letters  maybe in their autobiographies there's  something written down letting you know  what the king's reasoning was right and  some of those people might be critical  of it and some of them might be making  excuses for it and rationalizing all  right this is remarkably absent from all  these sources and i have more to say  what about the french perspective  what about the spanish perspective what  even about the portuguese perspective  now i'm influenced here a little bit by  my research on the history of asia  but i'll tell you something  in any given century  if you want to know what's happening in  india  very often the best source you have is  sri lanka  there are people in sri lanka writing  about what's happening in india with a  detached perspective right  and if you want to know what's happening  in sri lanka i mean the amount of  textual evidence is not i mean it's  not as much as you have for europe in  the same period  what's happening in sri lanka is  revealed by written records in myanmar  by written records in thailand and  cambodia and so on right like you get  incontrovertible evidence about what's  really going on in these places  politically  from a rival empire or a rival kingdom  that is keeping an eye on it so my point  is even the portuguese colonial archives  i mean portugal is not there on the spot  fighting to conquer new york they're not  involved to that extent but you better  believe the portuguese had people at  every single harbor there were entrepos  of trade right portugal is trying to  hold on to brazil and this its own very  strange map of the world they've got  boats going everywhere and portugal is  asking themselves the same tough  questions i mean again you know spain is  really involved you know what portugal  isn't well and portugal has to keep its  eye on spain right  no my point is not to say like the  spanish perspective is going to be  correct whereas the american perspective  is incorrect but you're actually going  to get  important evidence of what happened and  why  from the spanish perspective from the  french perspective even from the  portuguese perspective and yes from  within  england itself and this has been  neglected to a tremendous extent now i  will say further  i don't know  if there were any written records you  can go to now for the indigenous  people's perspective  if you guys don't know this about me i  had in my hands  every single book ever published in  korea or ojibwe i believe at that time i  have touched every book  that's published in those languages  going all the way back to the christian  colonial period now if you think about  the geography of my life that's not that  surprising that within canada i was able  to go to university library collections  each of which had basically tried to  collect  every book ever published in those  languages and there are there are oral  traditions there are memories of what  happened in those wars that get that get  written down  there may be  nothing like there may be nothing to  work from  but it certainly would be worth checking  would certainly interesting to know if  there is i mean again whether it's the  cree the ojibwe the iroquois or  down south you know totally different  ethnic groups and languages of  indigenous people now is there an  indigenous perspective  that is knowable you know that's  recorded anywhere or can be recalled  anywhere that would also i mean ideally  we'd get that perspective and again i'm  not saying this to to insult these guys  and again they only have so many pages  to write up with the history to what  extent is the perspective of the slaves  noble now this is what i would say about  that  i think the easiest way to get the  perspective of the liberated slaves will  be the the black men  who fought  in the united states of america and who  subsequently escaped either to canada or  to the british isles or whatever that  was common that there were blacks who  fought against the revolution and fought  in the counter-revolutionary war and one  way or another ended up being resettled  someone was just back in england proper  they were evacuated to england but  sometimes to some other british colony  um when the war ended and as you know  england basically lost or england quit  fighting or what have you so um some of  those people they may have had their  their perspective uh written down and  just to give you a sense who these guys  were so benjamin rush was also involved  with this sort of thing when he was in  england before he came over to north  america  but um  johnson so is it samuel johnson the  author of the dictionary i'm just giving  this first thing wrong  samuel johnson you know um  samuel johnson mostly famous for writing  a dictionary english language he was  really involved with the trials in  england that were testing and contesting  the legality of slavery he was really  interested in the morality and legality  of slavery he was anti-slave  anti-slavery activist and he met and  talked to  black people who were in england at that  time and who often were former slaves or  they had somehow been produced by the  gray area between slave and servant you  know like well they weren't exactly a  slave but they were a servant to someone  and then they ended up  in england and so on so again  the the black perspective  it may be written down nowhere but it  may be written down by blacks who  subsequently spoke to white british  authors about their experience including  a guy like samuel johnson because there  were white british people who were  really interested in that who were  interested in the abolition of slavery  and they would have been interested in  black people who from the british  perspective were returning heroes you  know they had been heroically fighting  for the king against the revolution and  now one way or another will we settle  elsewhere so this is this is my my  criticism the the first criticism is i  think that the significance of the  quebec act has been  massively  underappreciated  for a variety of reasons including a  strange sense of political correctness  in dealing with catholicism itself and  not taking seriously that what's going  on  uh is yes it's partly a war against the  slaves it's partly a war against the  indigenous people it's also a war  against catholics it is absolutely i  mean in large part for americans at this  time this is them defending this sphere  of um protestant  post-english revolution religious  pluralism  you know freedom and liberty as they  talk about this is these are the terms  they use they talk about freedom of  conscience liberty that there is this  realm of liberty that was created partly  by the  english civil war by cromwell  et cetera et cetera england's unique  history of protestantism and again the  existence of puritans the existence of  quakers so and so forth that's all part  and parcel of that peculiar social  system so they are fighting for the  defense of that more secular sphere but  also it's obviously a more protestant  sphere against the aggrandizement the  massive expansion of catholic power on  the north american continent so  the change to the map expanding quebec  and making quebec into a dictatorship  where there's no democracy all there's  no parliament et cetera et cetera and  basically we're giving up this whole  english legal uh tradition to hand over  to the rule of one government and the  the power of the catholic church to  collect tithes and so on and so forth  that is something they're fighting  against and they're they're already  galvanized by that they're already  fighting against that before  um the discourse about the race war  takes over it's completely  understandable that neither the authors  that i'm mentioning woody holton and  this particular book 13 o'clock it's  completely understandable that they  don't deal with it or that they just  barely mention it but this this is a  shaping and influencing factor for the  american revolution in the writing  constitution  to an extent that i in my opinion i  think nobody has really reckoned with  yet  you can think of the american revolution  as a war against the king of england  you can i mean it's it's completely  paradoxical to think of it as a war  against the english because the people  fighting it consider themselves english  too well but in that sense you can think  of it as an english civil war you can  think of it as a war against the indians  war against the indigenous people you  can think of it as a war against the  slaves but to a significant extent it is  a war against quebec  and it is a war against catholicism and  in the primary source documents in  english they very often use canadian  when they mean canadian  they often say canadian where what they  mean is french-speaking catholic  canadians that those are the enemy and  it is very interesting that already in  like 1775  the primary sources  think of themselves as american  in contrast to canadian that the primary  sources are complaining and again  canadian here i think really means  francophone canadian it means catholic  francophone canadian  that they think of themselves as  englishmen  fighting against the canadians and their  indians i.e the canadians and the allied  tribal people who are fighting with them  whether you think of that as mercenaries  or or what have you which by the way is  very much uh military and strategic  reality it's very much just literally  true  that the pro  uh royalist forces the king's men that  they raised up an army of um indigenous  people in the area that is now called  canada and they marched south  to fight against the american revolution  now the the history of how and why that  happened is is very interesting  this would be much longer video if we  think into that and you know what it was  the indigenous people were fighting for  what it was they thought they were  fighting for and how it was they thought  they would be rewarded when the the war  was over i think that is much more  complex than what the interests of the  black slaves were at this time okay  so  this is the context now guys if you want  to make an intelligent comment or ask an  intelligent question now is the time  this is the context that produced the  historically unique  resolution  set in stone in the constitution has  constitution they didn't actually chisel  in the stone  [Laughter]  these are the historical circumstances  that produce the unique resolution that  every gentleman should  own and carry a gun that gentlemen  should be armed right now it is really  worthwhile to stop and reflect  when they thought that every man should  have a gun having come out of this  violent history  what did they think about women  having guns what did they think about  black people having guns what did they  think about first nations people  american indians having guns now you  know many people just insert a kind of  cynical  racist or anti-racist uh commentary here  the reality at that time from their  perspective was what do you mean  all the indigenous people have guns that  we've just been at war with  like it wasn't a question of arming or  disarming the indigenous people they  were very much in a state of ongoing  genocidal race war against the  indigenous people that had become  more intense  during the american revolutionary period  when for the first time the indigenous  people were armed by the king of england  to fight against them like this this yes  there had been race war before but it's  not that it did the put it this way the  period of the american revolution of  writing the constitution was not a  period of optimism about having a  pluralistic multi-racial multi-ethnic uh  society it was a period when that  genocidal race war had only been  increased  in intensity and deepened in its in its  significance right when the sense of us  versus them so nobody i mean this is  this is the center was nobody was  questioning what do you mean whether or  not the native people should have the  right to have guns they all have guns  they were just given guns by the king of  england again at least in in terms of  the mythos at the time this was the  belief  um  there was no question of that and indeed  part of the justification for why all  the white people should be heavily armed  all the time was this perpetual fear a  fear that would soon enough disappear  but they didn't know that i said this is  really the final period when the  indigenous people are really a  major military concern then we go into a  long period where it's totally  asymmetrical and hopeless where it's  just the white people massacring and  displacing them and driving them to  extinction again and again but up to and  including this period many of these  battles it seems that the the the odds  are pretty even for the two sizes  sometimes the native people want  sometimes the white people and sometimes  the white people only win because of the  native people who are their allies who  are their mercenaries they're fighting  for them that a lot of the battles are  decided in this way that was their  experience of of war  um so  these are the historical circumstances  that produced a unique experiment in the  history of the world now  okay we could insert here a long  digression on what the european attitude  towards guns was but i am going to  assert as my thesis  in europe they had a very simple idea of  aristocracy okay an aristocrat was a man  who carried a sword an aristocrat was a  man who had military training who was  willing at any time to stop everything  he was doing and devote all of his time  attention energy and money to fighting  on behalf of the king it's part of the  definition of being an aristocrat in the  dark ages right there's the aristocrats  were not on vacation you know they were  they again for most of history there  isn't really a sense of a professional  army there was in the sense of being a  soldier as something separate from the  career of being a civilian right like  aristocrats were people who spent their  time breeding and training horses during  peace time there were men who would wear  a sword at all times  and ride a horse and carry so that they  would maintain  military training and so forth and even  though they might be wealthy  whenever there was a war they were  expecting to just take all their horses  and give them to the king's army and  often they were reluctant that's part of  the reason why they would dispute do we  really have to fight this war so and so  forth that was the the model of a  military organization that emerged from  the dark ages in europe right now if you  go back to rome and athens it's a very  different organization of what is what  is an army and indeed what is an  aristocrat right now  co-evil  with these assumptions right is the  importance of the dual  the importance of honor  so an aristocrat is someone who carries  a sword and who is willing to kill  anyone at any time with no legal  repercussions  to fight a duel over a point of honor  now as you may know  this cultural tradition  made the transition  from swords to guns  with no substantive changes  right  now  it's horrifying in many different ways  european society did not have any  concept of the police in the spirit of a  professional police force as i say  there's a limited extent to which the  idea of a professional soldier career i  can't say it doesn't exist at all but  this is much more the realm of amateurs  it's much more you know the realm of  being a gentleman being an aristocrat  and devoting your life to military  affairs and so on and so forth but wars  come and go there are periods of time  when every able-bodied man is pushed  into the army there period of time when  this is this is not the case but you  know the career soldier their conception  of this is somewhat uh different from  ours you know an aristocrat was in part  a career farmer but also someone he was  living and preparation for so the idea  of law and order  the idea of social order right for  centuries in europe this revolved around  the notion of men with swords and this  transforms into men with guns carried on  their person who are willing at any time  to stand up  take off their glove and throw it to the  ground and say sir you dishonor me  and fight to the death  all right now  most of you have probably only seen this  in comedy  it was deadly serious and it was still  deadly serious in the united states  at this time and in countries where  there was more upward mobility  where anyone could kind of claim to be  an aristocrat where someone could get  some money and vacuum on them start  living like an aristocrat there were  more people participating in the culture  of the duel right now in this period and  indeed even after the american  revolution you can go through the court  records dueling was simply legal murder  it was simply completely accepted that  human beings would settle their disputes  amongst each other this way by fighting  to the death and you know again there  isn't this sense that police officers  have the exclusive right to use armed  force that only police officers should  carry and use guns and that a police  officer is a professional who has a  certain kind of education a certain kind  of career  all of that is  absent right this is the notion that men  of honor carry swords carry guns and  they will stand up and fight because for  example another man said  that  your sister is a [ __ ]  all right so the the idea of law  enforcement is much more all pervasive  right and the idea that you're living a  life of honor  all the time this is the cultural  framework out of which you know  american gun ideology emerged now again  aristocrats  one reason to carry a sword or carry gun  might be the possibility that you will  be robbed by your own peasants you will  be robbed by your own household servants  um even in the absence of outright  slavery when we get into slave-owning  aristocrats you can imagine one reason  to carry a gun  carry a sword  the same reason that you carry a whip  and the same reason why the slaves are  wearing chains was so that physically  you had an advantage over people who  might want to rob you might want to kill  you who surrounded you who you worked  with closely  day after day this wasn't a remote  uh social problem this was the context  out of which the american constitution  emerged you will  look in vain  for a single word about policing about  the relationship of police to the public  in the american constitution that  concept really did not exist yet  the concept was some people have guns  and some people don't some people have  honor and some people don't and that was  how society was supposed to govern  itself with a tremendously high rate of  constant internecine violence now sorry  this is uh to be a bit edgy  okay so i mean you know actually from a  21st century perspective you could call  this anarchy  with this kind of anarchist society  armed anders okay so the front page of  the new york times today  the number quoted is that 1  500 have died  in  these types of shootings between the  year 2009 and  2022. okay  um  before dueling was made illegal and it's  a very different timeline in england in  france in the united states of america  like whichever western society you want  to look at how many men  lost their lives in duels  year after year and the whole population  the planet was lower like what  percentage of the best and brightest in  society were being killed by duels year  after year after year yes sometimes it  could be for a good reason but as you  know that's why there's so much comedy  about it it could indeed be for a very  petty reason indeed um there was a body  count there was a price to men being  able to carry guns  from the first invention  of of the gun right but again  in terms of the emergence of police i'm  sorry this is a  profound and important topic  um  in england i will say this and so by the  way oh have you ever heard of police  officers in ancient athens huh huh what  does aristotle say about police officers  about education training for police how  about police officers in ancient rome  my thesis would be that in  england the first emergence of something  like a police officer  was the turnstile  so we still have this word  uh turn style in english sorry sorcery i  misspoke turnpike sorry misspoke  you can see i get them mixed up uh the  idea of a turnpike  by a highway  so  turn pike  it's an etymologically very clear word  in our language  there was a time  when all roads in england were privately  owned  so quite likely some aristocrat built a  road and would charge you money to  travel on a road when the state of urban  planning and transportation was really  poor and there would be a kind of  soldier and again this is not really a  soldier it's not really an army but  there was an armed man with a pike  who would have to stand guard  at the entrance to the road constantly  right people could only use this road  who paid a certain amount of money  or who maybe had a contract an agreement  with whoever was to own the road like  you could imagine there might be  businesses regular users and they booked  at a conversation look we're going to  pay you 100 bucks now so you don't have  to pay 10 cents every time we use it but  there were these complex arrangements  and you had to have men with arms  it was a pike  traditionally who would stand guard at  the entrance to the road and it is  indescribable what misery it was to live  in the dark ages in england when there  were no public roads when all roads were  private when it was a privilege you had  to pay for to use a road so this is to  my mind the creation of armed men  standing on guard at all times um you  know in my book no more manifestos a lot  of the evidence of how society works is  implicit uh in primary source and  history in my book no more manifestos i  mention  an attempted assassination  of one of the prime ministers of of  england  and uh sorry the assassin succeeds i  should say so was the assassination of  one of the prime ministers of england  and what happens  there are no police  he is  people set hands upon him  and he is dragged off to the ends  the ends of justice you know  the reality of you know  when you're reading this implicitly at  this time  what was a police officer  what was a court you know like what was  a jury indeed you know what was a trial  what was a lawyer  you know how did this work in any given  century it's very easy to read  ancient medieval or even renaissance or  whatever you want to say to read sources  from earlier centuries and to impose  onto them our assumptions about how  policing works or how how men carrying  arms just armed people  the standing guard or whatever created  or sustained justice law and order it's  very very easy to to assume these things  and in so doing  we are massively diminishing the  significance of aristocrats in society  the fact that actually even including  marital disputes that people would  actually go to an aristocrat and say my  lord they would ask for intercession  they would ask for justice they would  ask this from aristocrats that  aristocrats did sit on a kind of throne  even it was just for their own little  village that there was a you know doing  justice and resolving disputes and so on  that very often this wasn't a  professional  criminal justice system that instead  these these ideas emerged out of you  know an aristocratic uh system of of uh  in the dark ages  okay um  i'm just gonna pause to read some of  these if most of you want to comment  oliver says quote the ephibia was an  ancient greek institution which  aristotle describes in  athenian politics so i assume you mean  the the yeah  the politea of the athenians whatever  the constitution of athens um in which  all male youth had military training for  a couple of years and were guards in  athens right so oliver i've i've talked  about that a lot i think both in writing  and in um  and in youtube videos that was the  system of education that they had and  the system of required military service  however  after they had completed that education  right they are just  citizens right so that's the emphasis i  put on it that this is the origin of  government education  in the athenian imagination and a lot of  what's going on in um  political philosophy at that time is  people including plato  their imaginations running wild about  how we could improve society by  reforming and improving the system of  education because they saw what a  dramatic effect that system of education  had just in contrasting athens to other  cities within within greece that this  was the making of an athenian and a  citizen and a participant in democracy  however people were not divided  whereby some are policed  and some are citizens whereby some are  lawyers some are bureaucrats etcetera  and some ordinary citizens that  distinction didn't exist you know um  instead  it is actually very difficult for people  now to imagine the implications of the  type of equality that existed amongst  citizens in athens  anyone could do justice  at the peril of their own life anyone  could stand up and speak in their senate  that the panics it's not called the  senate anyone could stand up and speak  and debate what should happen uh in an  ongoing war for example or what should  happen with the sewage treatment they  did have to worry about that these kinds  of things these kinds of local uh  questions anyone could  at the peril of their life you know so  the distinction we have between senator  and citizen didn't exist between uh  policemen and citizens didn't exist  between lawyers and citizens so there is  a radical important kind of equality  there even if of course we recognize it  was a slave society it was an unequal  society and numerous other ways  including obviously uh economic  inequality nevertheless this is this is  really important to um to recognize  so babe do you want to if anyone has  anything tremendously intelligent to say  from my perspective this video is soon  going to come to an end as i basically  bring back these conclusions to the  question of  legislation of guns and what is possible  next in 21st century american society  uh  yeah  so let's just say that that's also an  interesting question oliver says quote  when reading aristotle's politics i was  looking for his view on leaders of slave  rebellions that's that's what i was  looking for in aristotle when i was your  age i think a couple years younger than  you are now but when i was first reading  aristotle  the slavery was the number one issue i  wanted to see as his perspective on  anyway i continue quoting oliver quote  whether they count as free people on the  wrong side since he is pro-slavery close  quote yeah aristotle has an anguished  position  on slavery i would say he is aware of  the  self-contradiction he is led into by it  um but his conclusion is  that some people by nature should be  slaves and some people by nature should  be free  and he thinks it is a great crime or a  great shame it's it's very immoral for  someone who ought to be free to instead  be a slave  but he doesn't see anything wrong with  people who are by nature or slavish  uh to be slaves that is the that is the  conclusion he comes to and this is  wildly inconsistent with what he says  about political equality um throughout  the rest of his work  and  you know his own life experience  as someone who owned slaves and worked  with slaves himself and so on uh dallas  comes into this but yeah aristotle  ultimately um  cannot take the final step  that his own political philosophy  obliges him to take uh oliver has  certainly heard me say this before  you know  it's inevitable and inexorable that  aristotle rejects  the leadership of alexander the great  which is tremendously dangerous for him  that he rejects a basically monarchical  or dictatorial system of government and  that he instead preaches for his own  kind of moderate democracy using modern  terms here he rejects the extreme  democracy of athens but he wants a kind  of moderate democracy now i can get into  different videos exactly what that means  um but his version of moderate democracy  some of the cities immediately some of  the cities that are walking distance  from athens had it so there was a model  of democracy that already existed in the  real world that was known within greece  but it wasn't what athens had  specifically  um  that was his position on on democracy  so yeah aristotle really was bold enough  and was gutsy enough  to reject what was at that time  the ascendant political model the rule  of alexander the great and his own  family was directly connected to  alexandria great he personally was  connected to alexander the great  so  he did the right thing  at the risk of his own life there but he  wasn't able to take the step and really  recognize  the type of political equality that must  unite  slaves with the rest of humanity that  this is this is uh absurd and ridiculous  so say this way  he's bold enough to say it's ridiculous  to raise up alexander to be something  superhuman to treat a king or addicted  or any great leader to treat a king or  leader as if his his or her political  rights  are better than the rest of humanity but  what he's not willing to do is to  recognize that it's equally absurd to  treat the slaves as sub-human or as if  free people are super human relative to  the slaves and have two different sets  of  of of political rights that way  and i think his his explanation himself  is very human and pathetic frankly he  doesn't have anything intellectually  associated to say or philosophically  profound to say on that  and  uh  you know  with the exception of benjamin rush  you will be very disappointed  by what the founding fathers of the  united states of america have to say  about this the the continuum of  stupidity  and the shallowness of the excuses going  from  aristotle and ancient athens to uh  thomas jefferson you know in the  1770s 80s and 90s you know it's it's  truly pathetic  um  yeah so uh  you know when i was a young man i i  really couldn't stand reading aristotle  for that reason it was just infuriating  to me um  but you know i got older and i gained  the detachment to appreciate  what aristotle is doing right while  being aware of what he's doing wrong and  in a sense that's what we're doing in  this whole conversation in relation to  the american revolution we're willing to  reflect on what they did right in  relation with it  so just come back to something again i'm  happy to see your comments or questions  and by the way guys hit the thumbs up  button if you if you have a chance now  um  if you're if your hands are not dripping  wet from washing the dishes okay put the  dishes down towel and then hit the  thumbs up button we should have as many  thumbs up as we have people or more  um  i said earlier that the united states  these  unique political conditions that include  race war  you know racialized slavery and that  race war race war against the edition  bill that this produced the unique  experiment in human history of having  every able bodied man carry a gun and i  contrasted this  to the  aristocratic  history of europe and the assumptions  about swords and the assumptions about  guns that were that were built into that  that you know produced a very strange  patchwork of societies in europe  within the same century let's say as the  as the american revolution it wasn't the  case that there was one principle in  europe about gun ownership in this time  it's a mess and there's a lot of  violence there are a lot of people dying  every year in  duels and in petty squad bobbles and  very stereotypically in this very good  you can even read  shakespeare's romeo and juliet people  would kill each other because  their sister lost their virginity with  someone from your household and you know  this this kind of thing i mean  and those are the things that led to not  just a duel between two men but again as  romeo and juliet depicts  gangs of armed men representing one  household fighting against gangs of our  men from another household very very  high levels of violence this way and  there are no police to report to in as  much as there are courts  it is a court in the  medieval aristocrat think about the  meaning of the word court it's a court  where the judge is quote unquote my lord  ruling over a a court of courtiers the  courtiers of the courts  i'm sorry but you know the king's court  that says it this has a certain meaning  in english that we forget we're talking  about a court of law  um just point out though  the history of china  tremendously violent  at no point  did the history of china produce the  conclusion americans came to again circa  1776  circus 1789 when i went up for the  conclusion you know  the history of china did not produce the  conclusion that every man should be a  gentleman  every man should be an aristocrat  everyone every man should carry a sword  and a gun all the time  the history of india  never  produced this conclusion these are  societies with  many millions of people and now over a  billion people each these are not  trivial footnotes in this world now  again  frankly you can include very small  societies you can include cambodia you  can include laos we can get into  polynesian islands and so on but how  violence is supposed to be controlled  who  has a monopoly  on munitions on armaments  on the use of force right there's a  sense in which every society in every  century of the history of the world has  had to ask and answer these questions  whether implicitly or  or explicitly right who gets to carry  guns who gets to carry swords depending  on the on the historical period and you  know japan you may not know this but  it's it's very much represented in their  in their fiction you know there was a  period in japan where the emperor forbid  anyone to have metal swords and where  men still fought each other using wooden  swords but where all the swords were  basically taken in and kept in  warehouses like obviously the army could  still use swords in time of war but this  was really a shocking kind of gun  control  um of its of its era there have been  different societies at different times  that did have the centralization and  exclusive control of who gets to use  them who gets to use a steel sword and  who doesn't who gets to use explosive  guns uh so on and so forth  and who doesn't so it's a question  everyone has had to ask and everyone  said to answer  now i've opened this video by saying i  don't believe in progress  and in the contrary i think it's  tremendously important to attack and  overturn the notion of progress that  shapes how we think about law how we  think about democracy how we think about  politics  at one time  the people of france decided to  completely legalize prostitution  all right  at another time they decided that was a  mistake and they would totally  criminalize prostitution they would try  to get rid of it they would try to limit  and and diminish it now i believe  germany is currently in a transitional  period this way  it's a little bit different from one  province to the next in germany but  germany  embraced the idea that sex work is just  work i mean again  the netherlands uh another very dramatic  history this way and then you get to see  the consequences of legalizing  prostitution okay the history of  thailand the history of taiwan the  history of south korea at one time  people make one decision  and then they make another and they  write it down on a piece of paper no  different from a napkin you know we are  ruled by these conceptions or  misconceptions for a time and then  simply we change our minds and we have  to want to rip up that piece of paper  and start again  if you think the constitution can't  change if you think the constitution is  a scientific discovery like uh sir isaac  newton discovering gravity i'm not going  to digress into a critique of that  notion but obviously a simplification of  the history of science say that or you  know the discovery that the earth is a  sphere rather than flatters like which  is a very complex history too or  copernicus  uh you know whatever whatever discovery  all right it's not the case that there  was some scientific discovery when the  american constitution was written the  american constitution represents a very  strange set of  compromises  short-term compromises short-term  solutions to short-term crises that's  something that woody holton's approach  is really strong on giving you a sense  of what the short-term crises were that  we're responding to and  unquestioned deep-seated  uh cultural assumptions bigotry and  prejudice that go back for centuries you  know this was put together in in one  document one time  people can decide  that they should write an amendment to  the constitution to make alcohol illegal  and they did  the people of america  made alcohol  illegal and then they got to see the  consequences of that  and they changed their minds and they  wrote another amendment to the  constitution that ended the period of  prohibition that ended the period in  which alcohol this is a huge fundamental  change inside so what is progress  does progress mean that there is a  single arrow pointing in a single  direction  whereby in the medieval past people  thought sobriety was important people  thought being obstinate  and refusing uh drugs and alcohol and  then we have emerged out of the dark  ages into an era of increasing  enlightenment where our increasingly  liberal modern scientific attitudes  instead embrace everyone getting drunk  all the time everyone's smoking  marijuana all the time everyone using  recreational drugs whether it be cocaine  heroin that is it the fact there is a  single direction to progress right  whereby we go from prohibitionism to  embracing the profligate  decriminalized use of drugs  a lot of people want you to believe that  and a lot of people implicitly without  challenging it that that's what they  believe or assume they don't want to  think hey you know what we've just tried  different strategies they've just been  revisions they've just been  aimless staggering ignorant decisions  made at different times of different  people and  maybe in the dark ages  they were right about some things and  maybe we were wrong about them right now  my classic example of this many people  do think of this in terms of progress in  one direction is inbreeding because  marriage  the catholic church in the dark ages  really forbid people from marrying their  own cousins from having children with  their own cousins guess what the  catholic church was right a whole lot of  people still to this day have made  separate youtube videos talking about it  and i've i've seen clips of people  saying this on the news a whole lot of  people will prevent you with a pardon me  a whole lot of people will present you  with the story that we had a bigoted  ignorant attitude towards marrying your  cousin in the past we're in everybody  and then the progress of science and  enlightenment has led us to this more  liberal society today where we reject  that and that progress is getting rid of  these uh misconceptions from the dark  ages no it's not  okay no it's not guess what the catholic  church wasn't wrong about everything  okay guess what the catholic church was  right about inbreeding they were right  about  making it illegal to marry your cousin  to have children with your cousin  can't be wrong about everything you know  and and indeed there are many countries  in the world where up to a certain date  marrying your cousin was illegal and  then they liberalized it they they they  removed that law they made it legal to  marry your own cousin or they need to  take a step back again they need to  revert to what the law was before and i  mean there is a sense in which  everything i have to say about democracy  is saying we should go back to what  something they got right in ancient  athens  you know not everything there were a lot  of things they were wrong about ancient  athens but saying hey  the same way the catholic church just  happened to be right about this one  thing that happened to be correct about  in breeding and cousin marriage in  athens  there are some things they were right  about and we still need to learn that  lesson in a sense revert to them we're  not talking about progress we're talking  about regress from a regressive it  doesn't have no straightforward there is  neither progress nor regress they're  just human beings that get  [Laughter]  that come up with different strategies  to solve different social problems at  different at different points in time  you saw me won't jump in a bit at what  point  okay so so melissa has asked me a  question that's reasonably uh  reasonably profound  i'm glad by all means if you have  something intelligent to say say it if  you have an intelligent question ask ask  it but  melissa gets to preempt your questions  okay um  melissa has asked at what point  does something become a problem that  democracy must address or that the  government must address you can you can  put it that way right so you know the  headline again here is 1 500 dead bodies  from 2009 to 2022.  um  all right  you know i think that  the tremendous power  of journalists  during the 20th century  lulled the people into  [Music]  a presupposition  that there's some kind of objectively  real threshold whereby a problem becomes  so pressing becomes so overwhelming that  the government must address it and that  that it does  take off a layer here  it was cold this morning when we got  started  um  like  uh  it was very easy for americans to  imagine  that  there was just some kind of objectively  real tipping point  at which  massacres carried out in vietnam  were so bad or so problematic that the  whole vietnam war became immoral and had  to be opposed you know this is one  example it was very easy because of the  the power of the press to imagine  that the status of black people had  gotten worse and worse and that the  violence of repressing civil rights  protesters the god of wars wars and then  objectively the government had to do  something i had to address it and in  every period this is false you know the  period you're complaining about  sorry the you being hypothetical the  period of the civil rights activists  blacks in america had better conditions  than they'd ever had before you know if  anything it's it's the opposite it's  that their conditions had gotten better  not worse  and you know again i'm not belittling it  the sense that there was a short-term  crisis that needed to be addressed  this is totally a creation of the press  now the the milai massacre in vietnam  that is what i'm alluding to and saying  this about the american war in vietnam  and the distortion of all american  political discourse about what the hell  they were doing in vietnam anyway  there's what was there to be one that  was to be lost it was american foreign  policy in asia and in anti-communism and  around the world right it's totally  this kind of is created by the press  um uh obviously by the way i'm not  saying the melee massacre didn't happen  the military did happen  but this was turned into a kind of  crisis that needed to be addressed and  likewise you know what at the beginning  of the vietnam war the so-called gulf of  tonkin incident this is very much  created by and for the press the idea  that suddenly there was a crisis in  vietnam that america had to intervene to  address which is also again it's untrue  in many different levels what happened  with the gulf of tonkinson the reality  is that from the day  the french  removed their military intelligence  service  the american military american  intelligence took over the same offices  the american army american government  everyone put it took over the  administration of vietnam as a colony  absolutely on the the day the same day  the french left that america was in a  kind of pseudo-colonial position in  vietnam long before the gulf of tonkin  incident long before the beginning of  the vietnam war  um  [Music]  anyway this has to do with the unique  circumstances of the french humiliation  in both vietnam and and laos at that  time and what happened  and by the way it has everything to do  with opium also and the french  military being involved in the french it  was french intelligence friendship  military intelligence being involved in  selling and transporting opium to make  money to support the french  empire  uh over there so i've just mentioned a  whole bunch of things that  99.9 of people don't know  and frankly none of this is secret but  most americans have no idea that the  origins of the vietnam war have a lot to  do with  the french empire's involvement in  dope smuggling whatever you want to say  uh opium innovation bowl it does and you  know america's position in vietnam  emerged out of this  um  as well as by the way you know america's  situation in vietnam had a lot to do  with very sincere anti-communism wanting  to make the world safer democracy in  that period was no joke and america was  in a very difficult  self-contradictory position on that so  anyway america getting more deeply  committed to military action and an  expanding scope of military action in  vietnam cambodian laos that then unfolds  gradually i would say  but certainly long before the gulf of  tonsen my point is to say this  the power of newspapers in the 20th  century was such that they seem to  present the public  with these very clear objectively real  tipping points and turning points in  history now the gulf of talking incident  has happened now the milite massacre has  happened and by the way just before the  assassination of martin luther king  there were several black  um  sanitation workers black guys employed  in handling garbage garbage men in  effect who were killed  in memphis and that that's actually why  martin luther king went to memphis at  that time so i just say there were  actually a couple of killings just  before  uh martin luther king was killed it was  very easy to take these killings and to  take you know specific photographs of  police  um  using hoses to hose down uh protesters  and so on and to present this as some  kind of  sudden turning point in the history of  civil rights so just i think this is an  illusion that the newspapers have  created and it's a news it's an illusion  that politicians have to some extent  willingly participated in  and i i'm saying the 20th century  repeatedly i don't even think the 19th  century was like that i think this is  you could get specific about when  exactly does this begin and when exactly  does it end  um  but this kind of power the press had in  shaping you know political discourse now  you know  i'm a nihilist i don't believe in any of  these ideals  how  how is this  more important so 1 500 people die in  more than 10 years  how is that more important than the  future of afghanistan nobody in america  cares about democracy in afghanistan  anymore nobody cares about human rights  or women rights and again  what can i tell you democracy is like a  faucet turns off and  sometimes it's running hot sometimes  it's often gone you know um how is this  more important than  circumcision  and we could say male circumcision or  female circumcision i like to say both  because i think morally they are  tantamount sorry how many million boys  are losing 60 of the nerve endings in  their penis every year what percentage  of american men have this and again  oh yeah  yeah what percentage have even worse uh  side effects as a result what percentage  of women globally or what percentage of  women in afghanistan  are permanently physically sexually  disabled we've been watching documentary  in africa muslim africa and women who  are disabled forever  that's that's a crisis you know that's  neither more nor less of a crisis than  what happens to appear on the on the  front page of the the newspaper and  sorry look i mean obviously i could go  on with many examples  but  you know if you just look at the list of  bernie sanders electoral issues  i'm sorry what percentage of people  are bankrupted for life  by the university education system in  america what percentage of people are  bankrupted for life because of health  insurance costs prescription drug  costs these are not minor problems in  america these are unbelievably major  problems that leave america in its in  its shadow the crisis in education  everyone put it you know these these  questions  um  and you know  there is no rock bottom  it's not the case that you're going to  reach some objectively real tipping  point and and again i'm sorry to say  this but the milai massacre was not an  objectively real tipping point compare  the melaye massacre to massacres the  americans did in south korea in the in  the korean war or whatever you want to  have him you know war involves massacres  i'm not uh i'm not in i'm not pro  massacre i'm not i'm not justifying the  military but you know like the idea that  there's some unique turning point like  this well that is an illusion created by  the press  by the way there were atrocities  committed during world war ii on all  sides  the british committed atrocities the  americans can do sorry how does the meli  massacre compare to what the british  empire had been doing in malaysia  formerly known as malaya right then what  the british empire was doing in north  africa what the british empire even did  in cyprus and this is the post-world war  ii period i'm not talking about ancient  history of these examples there were a  lot of massacres in the dying days of  the british empire at the end of world  war ii and those those years right after  that you know let alone getting into  british india and so on and so forth  you know there were a lot of masters to  go around but this this this creation of  the sense of a crisis and that it's now  the government has to act it's now that  the the public has to rise up i think  that's really a 20th century uh 20th  century phenomenon so what do you say  right right right  right  right okay right right okay so this this  is  i've introduced this without explaining  it very well but  you know um  every so often climate change  is on the front page of the newspaper  every so often overpopulation  globally in relation to ecology is on  the front page of the newspaper well the  problem isn't really the number of  bipeds  the problem is the total number of  mammals that yes the world is  overpopulated but we have billions of  cows billions of pigs billions of sheep  at least tens of millions of dogs that  it's the biomass of the mammals in total  not necessarily humans that's the  problem so if you change the ratio of  humans to cows and humans to pigs by  having those humans convert to veganism  to a shocking extent that's the problem  solved it solves global warming solves  ecology cells over population so on and  so forth uh so so two things one the  point is that this is something like  circumcision this is something like  democracy in afghanistan or what have  you it's simply not in the newspapers  it's simply not thought of as as a major  crisis to be solved at this moment that  we're at a crossroads where it must be  addressed now but the other point is as  i say there is no rock bottom there is  no point at which you say oh well  animal agriculture is so bad uh the  ecological consequences of our diet are  so bad that now we have to legislate now  we have to turn things around now we  have to change um  there is no point at which gun violence  is so bad that it hits rock bottom and  it's it's never gonna happen there is no  uh  rock bottom um sorry but you know what's  rock bottom for democracy in hong kong  what's rock bottom for democracy and  myanmar  there is no  rock bottom guys things can get worse  and worse and keep getting worse under  communism you might think oh well  once people start starving to death then  they're going to question this and start  asking new questions about economics and  coming to new conclusions about  economics and politics and demand nope  nope like a million people can die and  five million people can die and 10  million people can die and there's still  no  rock bottom right um we could say this  about freedom of speech and so on and so  forth so yeah it's a comforting thought  to imagine that there's a kind of  biological equilibrium to politics  whereby a problem reaches a certain  threshold point at which it it must be  addressed and again whether you're  thinking of ecology  um  communism or what what have you no no um  you know and and  the 20th century certainly was a unique  century yeah i'll put it this way  um  yeah sure  i will just use it as an example that  you've used before mothers against drunk  driving yes i  whether it was how it was explained to  me when i was young um it did seem to me  that there was just this point where  there were so many incidents of drunk  drivers killing people right at some  point they enacted these gun laws right  but is that really right yeah the truth  behind what happened yeah yeah um  another example of that is the concept  of having a minimum age of consent for  sexuality the concept of statutory rape  being invented um  you know and again no the reality is  it's like a speed limit i mean human  beings you know  right but  right that's right there's no there's no  point at which so many people are dying  in traffic accidents that you lower the  speed limit human beings just have a  meeting and i would prefer if we had  democracy i would prefer if all of us  voted in a referendum say look from now  on  80 miles per hour is the speed limit  like whatever the maximum speed limit is  80 miles per hour we can't have people  going 120 miles per hour anymore or  whatever it is no i mean it is it is  just something written down on a on a  piece of paper and as you know i mean  you know  the definition of statutory rape the the  age of consent in one place it can be 18  and another place it can be 16  in some places it's 14 and so on  there's no simple biological reality  there's no scientific discovery in the  truest sense of the word convention this  is what it is we convene  and we make a decision as human beings  okay this is the number we're going to  write down whether that's a speed limit  or major consent this is what we're  going to live by  and if we're wrong we might have to go  back and revise the decision we've made  we have to try again with a different  assumption that that is indeed why  constitutions can never be set in stone  and and they aren't i mean in reality  they're they're not it's a good it's a  good digression i mean it's a digression  from an aggression um  you know  okay here are some other interesting  comments here  um  [Music]  anyway guys if you have something  intelligent to say say it i am gonna go  back and reread this stuff  so about  gun control about  legislation of of gun control and  limiting uh gun violence  um  all of the technology that fits into  this cellular phone i mean i have the i  have the rubber wrapper on this it's  unbelievable how slender  cell phones are now when i was a boy i  did envision this technological  transformation happening i was following  what was happening in technology i did  think that this was inevitable but i  imagined it being more like a brick  i did think i did think we would all be  carrying around with us portable  computers that incorporated telephones  and cameras and things computers and  word processors and email and at that  time the fax machine you know i thought  yeah the equivalent of the fax machine  is going to be miniaturized and made  portable this way so and so forth  but i knew what circuit boards looked  like i knew circuit boards were becoming  more and more  powerful but i never thought circuit  boards would be so tiny as this  that i can place it between my thumb and  forefinger like that um i did assume it  would be bigger even though i did it was  partly because of the science fiction i  was reading you know it was something i  reflected on partly because of the  science i was i thought we were moving  towards a society where everyone had  this kind of  camp video camera and computer with them  at all times  all of the technology that fits into  this tiny  cell phone  can be fit  into the  handle of a gun  all of it  it is possible  for every firearm in the united states  of america to take an image take the  photograph from a forward-facing camera  and to take a photograph from a  backward-facing camera of the shooter  and the person being shot and to send it  over the internet to the police station  instantly every single time you pull the  trigger it is possible  for a gun to record your location with  gps  a global positioning system the same way  that every cell phone records your  location with every text message  so some of you may have followed this in  the news some of you may not have i have  covered on my channel at least one case  where there's evidence presented in  court  of exactly where the person's car was  because they were text messaging while  driving and you get a map with a series  of dots saying yeah at exactly this  moment she was driving her car at this  intersection at this moment she was at  this stoplight at this moment she was on  the freeway because it's someone engaged  in this conversation that is  on the record for the government  recording her precise location and what  she was doing moment by moment with the  cell phone  okay having all of the technology that  is within a cell phone  built into  every firearm is  attainable it's easily attainable  there was a time when i was a boy  imagine if someone had said to you  when i was a boy i were talking about  more than 30 years ago  oh it'll be possible in the future to  have a fingerprint detector  that instantly reads your fingerprint  and confirms that you're the owner of  the gun  that might have sounded ridiculous or  impracticable 30 years ago  now every single one of you  is familiar  with just how streamlined that process  would be just how instantly  you can verify your identity um  with facial recognition  right a lot of you have phones that scan  your face  with fingerprint recognition  right so if you allow government  regulation of gun ownership  we could be in a situation where when  someone is mugged  they pull out their gun and point it at  the mugger  and without even pulling the trigger  that gun is already taking photographs  and uploading them to the internet i've  been sending them to the police the gun  is already recording your exact location  the direction the gun is pointed in who  it's being pointed at  and it's even photographing it could be  recording audio too you could have a  microphone in there just as well as we  have it's recording exactly what  happened to all parties moment by moment  for the historical record and in a sense  if you're defending yourself against a  mugger that could be a reason not to  pull the trigger because as soon as you  got the gun out you can say look  you know when this goes to court  you've already been had like it's over  so like you should not attack me you  should put down your weapon or you  should because  look when the cops  go over this footage they're gonna know  exactly what happened and who you are in  your face and where we were and what  happened so just just give up just wait  for the cops to come don't ruin your  life don't put yourself in jail longer  and don't get shot right so it may seem  paradoxical you should have fewer  shootings that way you could have a  database in the same way that today we  are recording  the location of every single voice  message every single text message every  single email  sent from a cell phone every single  bullet that's fired in the united states  america that's far fewer what do you  think there were more of in america  today text messages or bullets being  fired  and yeah a lot of that things in that  database it would just be okay at this  time in this location someone was firing  a bullet in the middle of the forest  they were killing a deer a lot of it's  going to be information that's not  legally useful or interesting but then  everyone involved would know that from  the minute it doesn't even have to be  when they pull the trigger it can be  when their hand is on the gun right it  can be before even if it's only a few  moments before they pull the trigger  their location is recorded their  identity  is look reported right who it is they're  pointing the gun at is recording you can  even have a rear-facing camera recording  that you're the one  holding the gun that today  is  easily attainable in the united states  of america and guys guns are expensive  i mean do you think this would even  increase the price of firearms by 40  i don't  i i think this would be invisible i  think you might be talking about twenty  dollars into the pricing because you can  buy a cell phone for forty dollars most  of the cost is the screen  you know obviously we're not gonna have  a we're not talking about having a full  color screen on your gun so you can  watch movies so you can watch youtube  videos on your gun right so there are a  lot of features of the phone that are  not going to be there it's going to be  cheaper than a phone anyways right but  i'm saying the other elements of  cellular phone technology cellular phone  networks and so on those can be  seamlessly invisibly integrated into  even a handgun of course there's plenty  of room in a shotgun  right so  we're not on the cusp  of a new technology that could change  gun violence  for several decades  that technology has existed  wouldn't you  like to know  what happened  in each and every gun battle in  america's conquest of iraq  america's conquest of afghanistan  the ukrainian war against russia right  now  with the same level of specificity  this could be the end of war crimes as  we know it  imagine a man who's aware of this  in time of war  this is one of the most common crimes in  in modern warfare imagine a man raping a  woman at gunpoint sorry guys this is  real talk we're talking about the real  world here  and he's aware  that this is being photographed his  precise location that it's his  fingerprint on the gun he's aware that  his army commanders are going to know  this that the police noticed that the  people who write the history books are  going to know this that this could never  be secret  that even if he kills her after the rape  so she can't tell anyone else which is  also common in war in case you didn't  know  that his crime exactly what he did  exactly what he said can be a microphone  recording his voice in the content too  that that will be recorded  for posterity how would soldiers behave  differently even  with the stress of the battlefront right  even with the stress of being in a war  zone  if they know  who they shoot what they say and what  they do  is being recorded and that if they die  their heroism  will be recorded for their own parents  to see for their own children and  grandchildren to see perhaps right and  that if they behave dishonorably  what they do in war  will be there for their parents to see  for their grandchildren as well as  journalists politicians  military commanders we have reached the  point  where the medieval  fantasy  of an omniscient god  can be a technological reality  built into the steel housing of every  handgun  and this isn't new  most of you are too young to remember a  time before this technology existed i'm  just barely old enough  to remember the rise of the cellular  phone  the idea  of mandating it  is new  okay  because most people  in positions of power  do not want  cell phone cameras and cell phone  recordings of what goes on inside  guantanamo bay  when prison guards just within the  normal prisons of new york city  rikers island whatever example you want  when prison guards  brutalize and intimidate and beat  inmates when prison guards shoot inmates  people in positions of power are quite  comfortable  with the ambiguity  of relying on the word of the one and  only witness to the event who most often  is the man who pulled the trigger  that when police shoot people  there are people in positions of power  who are very comfortable with the only  version of events being the police  officers  version and i'm not comfortable with  that  we are progressing toward a society  in which  the professor  standing at the front of the university  has a camera recording everything he  said whether it's built into his hat or  his eyeglasses or  or what have you and where every single  student in the crowd  has a camera of some kind  recording  what happens  and this will result in  a higher standard  of behavior  a  higher standard of deontology if you  like  for the professors  and for the students alike  right  uh when i grew up there were these cases  of he said she said about professors  sleeping with students or professors  flirting with students professors saying  politically incorrect things in class  sometimes professors saying racist  things in class  okay  well that's over  we're entering into an era when even the  most trivial controversy of this kind of  a politically incorrect professor this  kind of thing  where your opinion  doesn't matter because we can all  consult what's on the tape quite  possibly from 40 different angles from  the perspective of 40 different students  each and every one of them has a  recording device  so what is the future of gun violence in  america  is it a future  of anonymity  and impunity  that's that's what military gun violence  has presumed that's what police gun  violence has presumed again there are a  lot of other people with guns like  prison guards  right  anonymity impunity  no accountability  and  the elderly people who are currently in  power i'm sorry but politics is  dominated by geriatrics people over 80  the honey politics within the republican  party within the democrat party it's old  people it's people joe biden's age and  older who dominate politics in most  western democracies today they're real  comfortable with that all right and  there's a new generation coming up  that's saying whoa whoa whoa whoa  when there's even a minor dispute  between a taxi driver and his passenger  it's all on tape  like we're get we're used to this you  know sometimes the taxi driver punched  the customer  and but they say yeah yeah but i punched  the customer for a reason you have to  see it in context  we are accustomed to seeing footage of  um  diners at mcdonald's freaking out and  assaulting the staff at mcdonald's  they grab a bunch of plastic spoons and  throw them at the person they're  you know  we know exactly what they did we know  exactly what they said  within the halls of power this may be  different where you are but in taiwan  every time members of parliament punch  each other  it's on camera and they do they fight  you know they beat they get into  you know fisticuffs in parliament there  were kind of little riots within their  house of parliament where they really  they really uh yeah yeah some i mean  where you live your house of parliament  you're  you know  i would assume most of the world every  you know  uh  every little thing that's said and done  inside your house of prominence  okay so you think the battlefront just  doesn't matter  you think what soldiers do in times of  war is less important is less  significant than  whether or not this taxi driver made a  racist remark that justified the  passenger in the taxi punching the  driver or you know whether or not  they're two different versions where the  taxi driver says the passenger refused  to pay money and the passenger says no  the taxi driver ripped me off and stole  my money  all of these petty disputes right we  don't rely  on witness testimony anymore we rely on  the god-like  omniscience of portable recording  devices that are in every home they're  in every pocket and they can be on your  hat or glasses or pin to your lapel  they're one of the major responses to  police brutality within the last five  years has been to demand that every  police officer wear a camera at all  times and then there's a separate  question which is constitutional who  gets to control that footage is that  footage immediately uploaded to youtube  where everyone can see it is it  somewhere  you know where freedom of information  act requests where everyone can see  every minute of every on duty police  officer's life that if you're on duty  with a gun anyone can access that or as  often happens is the footage only  released after being censored after  being edited that it's controlled and  that sometimes conveniently police  department should say they lost the  footage the footage isn't available  so  if you follow these kinds of things in  politics you are aware  these are these are issues  the existence and presence of the  so-called body cam that's the term the  body cam oh oh so only police officers  are going to wear a body cam huh  not not soldiers in time of war does  that matter more or less again taxi  drivers okay what about the mayor  the mayor has no body cam  it's all just he said she said [ __ ] for  the mayor  what about your member of parliament  like what about really important  political events  secrecy anonymity impunity  or  accountability  transparency now again  i used the example of a university  professor  for a reason you know i i realize it may  seem like a stretch we're talking about  gun violence now you're talking about a  university professor preaching from the  pulpit to his students okay  i have known so many university  professors  who would be ashamed  to watch the film of their own behavior  back again they'd be so ashamed just to  hear the words  out of their own mouth  i've known university professors who  showed up drunk to give their lectures  there are university professors who show  up under the influence of other drugs  but there are also just university  professors who have a short fuse who  lose their temper there are professors  who preach ridiculous extreme political  ideologies extreme political views right  and without even someone else to  criticize them  i i'm just talking to people i've known  right  i could sit down with some of these  people and just play the tape  did you did you realize you said that  like did you  this will bring about a change on the  part of the behavior  of the university professor now guys  students are not angels  you know i wonder what impact you would  have if you started really invigilating  the behavior of students or it's like  look not only is it we know you cheated  on the test  it's a real issue and i've really seen  it cheating on tests and exams  but like where someone some authority  figure is sitting down with a student  saying look  this is what you did during that one  hour lecture  you played video games city like we know  we have videotape evidence that you sat  and played video games you weren't  paying attention you're not taking notes  you're not doing this but you know  maybe that you were sleeping whatever i  mean i've been in the room where every  other student behind aside from myself  the extent to which they're in no way  participating in their own education or  they're not doing what academia demands  of them  and you can have rules you can enforce  this you can  enforce higher standards of of  excellence and failure so yes sam walsh  mentions um  car dash cams  so this is a camera on the dashboard of  a car  cars now increasingly have have cameras  built in  yeah  i mean  i'm just barely old enough to remember  when that was new  you know  um but for my generation i mean if you  were just five years younger than me you  didn't see that change  i remember reading a story in the  newspaper and it was very moving  and it was from a black guy  describing the racism of the police  this was in toronto in canada  and them grabbing him and throwing them  in the hood of the car and this stuff  you know  but what happened at that time  was that you found that many many of the  people who at that time because they  weren't aware of the dashboard cameras  themselves like because it was that new  many of the people who claimed the  police were racist and claimed they were  corrupt and claimed misconduct  the dash cam footage proved that the  person making that complaint was either  deeply dishonest or insane or both i saw  a lot of that  just at that time  right when it was really new that  actually people have become accustomed  to being able to make up stories about  police misconduct now some of the police  misconduct was real  but so many people were lying before the  advent of the of the dash cam right so  this is another real this is another  real change  right  so um  yeah  this is an answer  waiting for someone to ask the question  as soon as we allow  the regulation of guns  this is the answer not just in the  united states  in switzerland in taiwan in japan in  communist china  the answer already exists  the answer is there and the answer is  irrefutable  some things are so trivial  they should not be recorded by hidden  cameras or i'm not saying hidden cameras  miniature cameras portable cameras right  if you put your kid into a daycare  center  do you want the daycare center to have  cameras on all the time  let's say one kid in a million  dies in a horrible accident while  they're at a daycare center right let's  say some something terrible happens to  just one kid in a million at a daycare  center do  you want it record if something goes  wrong  if your kid is somehow  hurt or harmed do you want to have  according to that  we accept  that pilots in airplanes have no privacy  there is a black box recorder in every  cockpit every single word  that the pilot says is recorded every  decision every button he or she presses  while flying the plane why because it  matters we have an united unspoken  standard that some things matter  so they must be recorded however  inconvenient or embarrassing again  there's a further question that requires  legislation requires an amendment to the  constitution i think in every country in  the world what happens to that footage  does everyone get to hear it like is  there an access is there a process where  when the plane crashes if my  my ex-wife dies in the plane crash or  something i want to know exactly what  went wrong with the the pilot can i  access the recordings can anyone or is  it only released when some government  agency or some private corporation has  had the opportunity to censor it to  decide whether or not it'll be employed  these are these are big momentous  questions right  something as seemingly trivial as  dropping your kid off at daycare  something that obviously involves life  and death decisions like flying an  airplane  when you  pull the trigger  of a gun  how can that possibly  be less significant a decision than  pressing send on a text message  of course your location should be  recorded of course a digital photograph  should be taken of course it should be  uploaded to a database  your pinpoint location on a map and  these other details  should be immortalized they should be  available to the authorities to the  police i would say they should be  available to journalists or to anyone  who's interested your own relatives your  own cousin is wondering what happened in  that shooting and you're involved you  were involved with they should be able  to get the objective  truth  right and we have already decided that  we're willing to sacrifice our so-called  privacy privacy a concept that's not in  the constitution that's not legally  financed just a cultural notion of  privacy we have decided that we're  willing to give up that privacy every  time we send an email from a cellular  phone every time we send a text message  of course  we should give up the idea of  impunity anonymity privacy when we pull  the trigger of a gun of course  there are not two sides to that debate  there is one answer  and it's the same answer for switzerland  for taiwan for thailand as it is for the  united states of america it is an answer  waiting for someone  being willing  to ask  the question